<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Ortuno and Gilgado>
<Source: Journal of Natural History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 544>
<End Header>

The hydrochory dispersal hypothesis
The species of the genus Typhlocharis inhabit very humid endogean environments and
are often found on river banks and at stream headwaters. It is known that these loworder
streams have an irregular flow pattern throughout the year because they are
strongly influenced by local precipitation (Junk et al. 1989). Sometimes (Figure 6), flow can increase and drag portions of ground and population effectives (t1) of
Typhlocharis. These would arrive at another place, where they would establish a new
population (t2). They could also achieve the lower reaches of a new stream (t2
_), and
by simple “brownoid motion” (bm) (erratic movement due to the autonomy of movement
of living beings, whose theoretical curve is consistent with that of a “Brownian
motion”, the latter produced by the collision of molecules in a fluid medium; Vendryès
1942; Rapoport 1975) could disperse to the headwater (t3). If the headwater reaches a
watershed, those Typhlocharis could arrive at a new slope (t4) and so colonize a new
drainage basin where further spreading (t5) could occur. The new population would
have two features that would allow differentiation: (i) isolation (many miles from the
original) and (ii) they would have been constituted by few individuals (founder effect,
Mayr (1963), which may be even more extreme). This would promote rapid allopatric
speciation in response to a random dispersion model and indigenation (see Zunino
and Zullini 2003: 21).
If the radiation of Typhlocharis species started in the Oligocene–Miocene period,
its dispersal by hydrochory would explain the notable distribution of the genus from
north of the Iberian Peninsula to Tunisia. There is considerable evidence to support
this hypothesis. First, the spaces they inhabit may be flooded for long periods of
time, conditions to which they adapt well. This peculiarity was underlined by Ortuño
(2000) in relation to Typhlocharis bazi Ortuño, 2000 and its amphibious lifestyle.
Experimentation with some specimens showed that they could survive completely submerged
in water for a period of up to 30 days under controlled conditions. This finding
is surprising, as Andersen (1968) reported shorter survival time for adults of 11 species
of riparian beetles in immersion conditions. No species survived beyond 4 days, except
some species of fossorial coleoptera such as Clivina fossor L. 1758 and Bledius longulus
Erichson 1839, which lived for 7–12 days buried in silt. Similarly, some Cicindelidae
larvae living in flood margins of rivers can survive in submersion for long periods of
time, such as 3 weeks or even more (Wilson 1974). In both cases, the most plausible
explanation is that they survived thanks to an air bubble. It has been suggested that
organisms that colonize the floodplains have developed adaptations that allow them
to survive periods of flood (Junk et al. 1989). On the other hand, it is known that
there is dispersal by hydrochory in beetles that are specialists of exposed riverine sediments,
that can swim, survive underwater for long periods of time (Andersen 1968)
and survive being swept away by eventual flow increases (Lude et al. 1999; Bates et al.
2006). This also might explain the distribution of some other hygrophile Trechinae
strongly associated with watercourses (Ortuño and Toribio 2006) as well as that of
other edaphic zoological groups such as Lumbricidae and Isopoda (Kühnhelt 1957).
