<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Rainero, et al>
<Source: Journal of Cell Biology>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 584>
<End Header>

Abstract
Inhibition of avﬂ3 integrin or expression of oncogenic mutants of p53 promote invasive cell migration by enhancing endosomal recycling of a5ﬂ1 integrin under control of the Rab11 effector Rab-coupling protein (RCP). In this paper, we show that diacylglycerol kinase a (DGK-a), which phosphorylates diacylglycerol to phosphatidic acid (PA), was required for RCP to be mobilized to and tethered at the tips of invasive pseudopods and to allow RCP-dependent a5ﬂ1 recycling and the resulting invasiveness of tumor cells. Expression of a constitutive-active mutant of DGK-a drove RCP-dependent invasion in the absence of mutant p53 expression or avﬂ3 inhibition, and conversely, an RCP mutant lacking the PA-binding C2 domain was not capable of being tethered at pseudopod tips. These data demonstrate that generation of PA downstream of DGK-a is essential to connect expression of mutant p53s or inhibition of avﬂ3 to RCP and for this Rab11 effector to drive the trafficking of a5ﬂ1 that is required for tumor cell invasion through three-dimensional matrices.
Go to:
Introduction
The poor clinical outcome of many cancers is caused by dissemination of metastatic tumor cells and the outgrowth of secondary tumors at distant sites. To metastasize, cancer cells must cross ECM barriers, such as basement membranes and the stromal tissue that surrounds tumors, as well as acquire the ability to extravasate and insinuate themselves into their metastatic target organs (Sahai, 2005; Rowe and Weiss, 2009). Many of these steps to metastasis require cancer cells to acquire particular migratory characteristics, and this issue is now becoming a major focus for researchers keen to understand how cancer progresses.
A cellís migratory properties depend on the way in which it interacts with and responds to the surrounding ECM, and much of this is dictated by the integrin family of ECM receptors. Integrins are heterodimeric transmembrane receptors that not only physically link the intracellular actin cytoskeleton to the ECM but are also signaling molecules that transduce signals bidirectionally across the plasma membrane (Hynes, 2002). There are several ways in which a cell can control integrin behavior. For instance, FERM domainñcontaining proteins, such as talin and kindlin, can be recruited to integrin cytotails to activate their ECM ligand-binding capacity (Moser et al., 2009). Moreover, surface integrins are continuously endocytosed and then returned (or recycled) back to the plasma membrane, and it is now apparent that the way in which integrins are trafficked through the endosomal pathway is key to how they function (Caswell and Norman, 2006, 2008; Pellinen and Ivaska, 2006; Ramsay et al., 2007; Caswell et al., 2009). There is a reciprocal relationship between the trafficking of avﬂ3 and a5ﬂ1 integrins such that when avﬂ3 cycling or ligand engagement is compromised, recycling of a5ﬂ1 integrin is strongly promoted (White et al., 2007; Caswell et al., 2008). Furthermore, it is now clear that oncogenic mutant forms of p53 strongly promote a5ﬂ1 recycling and that this is achieved via mutant p53ís ability to inhibit p63 function (Muller et al., 2009). Importantly, whether achieved by avﬂ3 inhibition or by expression of mutant p53s, the migratory consequences of increased a5ﬂ1 recycling depend on the ECM environment. Thus, when cells are plated onto 2D surfaces, increased a5ﬂ1 recycling causes cells to switch from directional to random migration (White et al., 2007; Caswell et al., 2008). On the other hand, when tumor cells are in 3D microenvironments, activated a5ﬂ1 recycling promotes the extension of invasive pseudopodial structures, leading to increased invasiveness of the type associated with metastatic cancers (Caswell et al., 2008; Muller et al., 2009).

