<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Nechipurenko and Broihier>
<Source: Journal of Cell Biology>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 595>
<End Header>

Results
FoxO is broadly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) with high levels in motor neuron nuclei
foxO was identified in a misexpression screen for genes involved in motor neuron differentiation. An upstream activation sequence (UAS)–containing P element, GS1664, inserted upstream of the foxO gene, disrupts the embryonic axonal scaffold when crossed to the panneuronal driver ElavGal4 (Fig. 1 C and not depicted). The phenotype is attributable to elevated FoxO levels, as ElavGal4-driven overexpression of a UAS-foxOWT transgene yields an equivalent phenotype (Fig. 1, A and B).
FoxO is enriched in a subset of motor neuron nuclei. (A and B) Late-stage wild-type (WT; A) and FoxO GOF (B) embryos stained for Fasciclin 2. (C) Gene structure of Drosophila foxO. Closed rectangles represent exons. The P element (GS1664) used to generate ...
To permit an analysis of foxO in neuronal development, we generated anti-FoxO polyclonal antibodies (Fig. 1 D). On immunoblots of whole-body extracts from wild-type L2 (second instar larvae), anti-FoxO recognizes a prominent band of ~90 kD (Fig. 1 E and Fig. S1). To evaluate antibody specificity, we obtained three presumptive protein-null alleles of foxO. foxO21 and foxO25 code for nonsense mutations in the forkhead domain (Jünger et al., 2003), whereas foxO?94 is a newly generated deletion allele removing >20 kb of the foxO locus (Slack et al., 2011). Anti-FoxO fails to detect protein on immunoblots of whole-body extracts from foxO?94 or foxO21 L2 animals (Fig. 1 E), confirming antibody specificity and, at a minimum, indicating that both alleles are strong hypomorphs. In contrast, a band corresponding to full-length FoxO is recognized on immunoblots of extracts from foxO25 L2 animals (Fig. 1 E), suggesting read through of the nonsense mutation. Thus, the foxO25 allele is not protein null and is excluded from most assays presented here. To further control for contribution of genetic background, we generated an additional foxO allele. The foxO?2 allele is a ~2-kb deletion in the 5' region of the foxO gene and was created by imprecise excision of the GS1664 P element transposon (Fig. 1 C). foxO?2 animals express markedly reduced levels of FoxO protein (Fig. 1 E), indicating that the foxO?2 allele is a strong hypomorph.
We characterized the FoxO expression pattern in the embryonic and larval CNS. In the late stage embryonic ventral nerve cord (VNC), strong nuclear FoxO staining is observed in a subset of cells (Fig. 1 F), referred to here as nuclear FoxO+ cells. Nuclear FoxO+ cells remain prominent in the L3 (third instar larval) VNC (Fig. 1 G). Additionally, widespread lower level predominantly cytoplasmic expression is observed in the L3 VNC (Fig. 1, G and H, arrows). FoxO expression is abrogated in foxO21, establishing the specificity of the anti-FoxO antibody on tissue (Fig. 1 I). All nuclear FoxO+ cells appear to be neurons, as we find no colocalization between FoxO and the glial marker Repo (unpublished data; Hosoya et al., 1995; Jones et al., 1995). Costaining wild-type embryos and larvae with FoxO and pMad, a motor neuron marker in Drosophila (Marqués et al., 2002), reveals that nuclear FoxO+ cells are primarily motor neurons (Fig. 1, J and K), though not all motor neurons display enriched nuclear FoxO. To confirm the motor neuron identity of nuclear FoxO+ cells, we expressed a foxO RNAi construct via the D42Gal4 driver. Nuclear FoxO+ cells are largely lost in D42>foxORNAi#3 larvae (Fig. 1 L and Fig. S3), consistent with the identification of nuclear FoxO+ cells as motor neurons. High-level nuclear expression of FoxO in a subset of motor neurons suggests a role for FoxO in motor neuron differentiation.

