<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Maria Giovanna Trivieri , Gavin Y. Oudit, Rajan Sah, Benoit-Gilles Kerfant, Hui Sun, Anthony O. Gramolini , Yan Pan, Alan D. Wickenden, Walburga Croteau, Gabriella Morreale de Escobar, Roman Pekhletski, Donald St. Germain, David H. MacLennan, and Peter H. Backx>
<Source: PNAS>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 545>
<End Header>

Thyroid hormone (TH) is critical for cardiac development and heart function. In heart disease, TH metabolism is abnormal, and many biochemical and functional alterations mirror hypothyroidism. Al-though TH therapy has been advocated for treating heart disease, a clear benefit of TH has yet to be established, possibly because of peripheral actions of TH. To assess the potential efficacy of TH in treating heart disease, type 2 deiodinase (D), which converts the prohormone thyroxine to active triiodothyronine (T), was ex-pressed transiently in mouse hearts by using the tetracycline transactivator system. Increased cardiac D activity led to elevated cardiac T levels and to enhanced myocardial contractility, accom¬panied by increased Ca+ transients and sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca+ uptake. These phenotypic changes were associated with up-regulation of sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA) 2a expression as well as decreased Na+/Ca+ exchanger, ^-myosin heavy chain, and sarcolipin (SLN) expression. In pressure overload, targeted increases in D activity could not block hyper¬trophy but could completely prevent impaired contractility and SR Ca+ cycling as well as altered expression patterns of SERCAa, SLN, and other markers of pathological hypertrophy. Our results establish that elevated D activity in the heart increases T levels and enhances cardiac contractile function while preventing dete¬rioration of cardiac function and altered gene expression after pressure overload.

Thyroid hormone (TH) is essential for normal development in vertebrates (1), with TH levels rising postnatally and peaking in the third week of life (2). This surge is critical for fetal-to-adult switch in the cardiac gene program and is responsible for changes in Ca+ homeostasis, myosin isozyme content [a-myosin heavy chain (MHC)-to-^-MHC switch], and action potential profile (3,4). Intriguingly, the genetic and functional changes associated with heart failure, such as reduced Ca+ transients and a-MHC-to-0- MHC shifts, which recapitulate the fetal gene program, are also observed in hypothyroidism (5, 6). In addition, TH metabolism and signaling are abnormal in heart failure (5, 7, 8). For example, circulating and cardiac triiodothyronine (T) levels (i.e., active TH) are reduced in advanced heart disease, after acute myocardial infarction, and in patients with cardiopulmonary bypass. These T changes occur in association with decreased peripheral conversion of thyroxine (T) into T (5,8) and elevated cardiac deiodinase type 3 (D) activity (9). TH receptor expression is also altered in pathological hypertrophy (10), and myocardial contractility is im¬paired in mice lacking TH receptors (11). Not surprisingly, TH and its analogue 3,5-diiodothyropropionic acid (DITPA) have been advocated for treating heart failure (12, 13) and for reversing cardiac dysfunction in patients with hypothyroidism (5), although TH use has been limited by cardiotoxic effects of TH (14, 15).
Because of similarities between hypothyroidism and heart dis¬ease, we hypothesized that cardiac-specific enhancement of TH signaling would prevent the genetic and functional defects in heart failure. Type 2 deiodinase (D) is a conserved 5' deiodinase enzyme that is expressed in human myocardium, where it converts prohor- mone T into active T (16, 17). We created transgenic mice that conditionally overexpress D in the heart. D overexpression for 2 weeks caused enhanced contractile function in association with changes in the expression of several calcium handling proteins. After aortic banding (AB), D transgenic mice were resistant to pressure overload-induced impairment of calcium cycling and contractility, suggesting that cardiac-specific TH therapy may be useful in treating heart disease patients.




