<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Delphine Jussier, Amlie Dub Morneau, and Ramon Mira de Orduna>
<Source: Applied and Environmental Microbiology>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 572>
<End Header>

MATERIALS AND METHODS 

Microorganisms. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain CY and the two Oenococcus oeni strains EQ and Alpha are commercially available as pure freezedried cultures and were obtained from Lallemand (Montreal, Canada). Grape must, vinification protocol, and sampling. Chardonnay grapes from a commercial Hawke's Bay (New Zealand) vineyard were harvested mechanically, destemmed, and crushed, and 620 kg of fruit was pressed at 1.3 bars in a bladder press (type 60; Willmes Anlagentechnik, Germany) to yield 400 liters of must that was cold-settled at 4°C for 24 h and racked. The racked must had a soluble solids content of 20.7 Brix (20°C), a pH of 3.28, and a total acidity of 10 g liter 1 as tartaric acid and contained 5.01 g liter 1 of malic acid. Diammonium hydrogen phosphate (Sigma) (300 mg liter 1) was added as a yeast nutrient. Twelve 25-liter glass carboys were filled with the must. The four treatments (in triplicate) consisted of combining AF by S. cerevisiae CY with MLF by O. oeni strain EQ or Alpha, where the malolactic bacteria (MLB) were inoculated either together with yeast (simultaneous AF/MLF) or after completion of AF (consecutive AF/MLF). The microorganisms were prepared and inoculated according to manufacturer's recommendations to give cell counts of 8 107 CFU ml 1 for the yeast and 1 106 CFU ml 1 for the wine LAB, which were confirmed by viable cell counts on YPD and MRS agars (Difco), respectively. The fermentation temperature was maintained at 19 to 20°C in a temperature-controlled room. Samples were taken periodically during fermentations and centrifuged at 10,000 g for 5 min, and the supernatant was transferred into 15-ml screw-cap tubes and frozen at 18°C until analysis. After completion of AF and MLF as assessed by stable sugar and malic acid concentrations, the wines were racked of the primary yeast lees, fined with bentonite (0.5 g liter 1) (Volclay WG, North Geelong, Australia), racked of the bentonite lees, cold stabilized (2°C, 1 week), and racked again. The concentration of free SO was adjusted to 36 mg liter 1 in three rounds over a period of 2 weeks. Finally, the wines underwent depth filtration with filter sheets (EK grade; Seitz-Schenk, Germany) followed by 0.45- m membrane filtration (142-mm nylon disk filter; Millipore) before bottling. CO was used for inertion of headspaces throughout the entire winemaking process. The wines were stored in 750-ml bottles for 12 months for sensory evaluation. Analytical methods. Organic acids were analyzed with formic acid as an internal standard by ion-exchange high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) (Summit HPLC system; Dionex, Sunnyvale, Calif.). Samples were filtered through 0.2- m nylon filters (Millipore), and 10 l was directly injected. Separations took place on a 250-mm by 4.6-mm (inner diameter) Supelcogel H column, preceded by a 50-mm by 4.6-mm (inner diameter) Supelguard CH (Supelco) precolumn with the same filling and a 0.5- m in-line filter (Upchurch, Oak Harbor, WA). Separations were carried out under isocratic conditions with a 0.1% HPO4 mobile phase (HPLC grade; Sigma) at a flow rate of 0.2 ml min 1. UV detection of organic acids was carried out at 210 nm. Arginine, citrulline, and ornithine were quantified on a Shimadzu class VP system by reverse-phase HPLC. Amino acids were quantified after precolumn derivatization with -phtalaldehyde/3-mercaptopropionic acid according to the method of Bartok et al. (2). ´ Chromatographic separations were performed with a 100-mm by 4.6-mm (inner diameter) column (Supelco) filled with 3 m Hypersil ODS (Shandon, Cheshire, England). 



