<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Olivier M. Dorchies, Stephanie Wagner, Ophelie Vuadens, Katri Waldhauser, Timo M. Buetler, Pavel Kucera and Urs T. Ruegg>
<Source: American Journal of Physiology>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 551>
<End Header>

RESULTS

Effects of GTE, EGCG, and PTX on mouse weight and food intake. Three-week-old mice had a mean body weight of 8.6 (SD 0.7) g. As illustrated in Fig. 1A, animals that received 0.25% GTE and 0.1% EGCG were slightly lighter than untreated mdxCv mice when they entered the protocol. Then, the mean body weight was similar in all groups during the next 4 wk. During the fifth week of treatment, untreated mdxCv mice gained weight more rapidly than the other animals. The mice became significantly heavier than the normal mice and the mdxCv mice treated with low-dose GTE or PTX (Fig. 1A). Such an augmented body weight of mdx mice compared with normal animals has been observed by others (36). After the first week of treatment, the food consumption index varied from 0.146 (untreated mdxCv) to 0.206 g/g body wt/day (normal mice); the index of the groups supplemented with the test substances ranged within these values (Fig. 1B). The food consumption index normalized thereafter toward a value of 0.150 g/g body wt/day. This corresponds to a daily drug intake of 75 and 375 mg/kg body wt for the groups fed on 0.05% and 0.25% GTE, respectively, and 150 mg/kg body wt for those receiving 0.1% EGCG and 0.1% PTX. Effects of GTE, EGCG, and PTX on plasma total antioxidant potential. The total antioxidant potential was measured in the plasma of both treated and untreated animals. No significant difference was found between groups after 1 wk of diet supplementation (Fig. 2). However, after 5 wk of dietary intervention, all four treated groups presented a slight but significant increase in plasma antioxidant potential (Fig. 2). Values (mmol/l) ranged from 1.72 (SD 0.16) for untreated mdxCv animals to 2.35 (SD 0.55) for animals that received EGCG or PTX. Treatment with either dose of GTE elevated the plasma antioxidant potential to 2.10. Normal mice had an antioxidant potential of 1.85 (SD 0.35). Effects of GTE, EGCG, and PTX on muscle histology. Transverse sections were obtained from EDL and soleus muscles and stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Healthy and regenerated muscle fibers were readily identified by the presence of either peripherally or centrally located nuclei, respectively (Fig. 3). Foci of necrotic fibers were delineated by the presence of densely packed, infiltrated immune cells, and newly formed regenerating myotubes were recognizable as small-caliber cells with enhanced eosinophilia and large centrally located nuclei (Fig. 3, A and D). The fractions of the muscle affected by necrosis and regeneration are shown in Fig. 4. EDL muscles from 4-wk-old untreated dystrophic mice exhibited 30% NRS (Fig. 3, A and D). In contrast, in mice fed for 1 wk the high-dose GTE, EGCG, or PTX diet (Fig. 3, B and E; Fig. 4), the part of necrotic EDL muscle dropped to 17­20%. This corresponds to 31­ 42% of protection compared with untreated mdxCv mice. Soleus muscle was more affected, with a NRS value of 45­ 53% in all groups after 1 wk of dietary intervention. At this stage, centrally nucleated fibers with an already fully differentiated appearance contributed little to the NRS. The largest part of NRS was due to necrotic fibers, infiltrated immune cells, and newly formed regenerating myotubes. After 5 wk of dietary supplementation, the NRS values were similar in all groups of dystrophic mice, regardless the treatment. 



