<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Hayakawa, Babour, Sengmanivong, and Dargemont>
<Source: Journal of Cell Biology>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 509>
<End Header>

Abstract
Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) correspond to large protein transport complexes responsible for selective nucleocytoplasmic exchange. Although research has revealed much about the molecular architecture and roles of the NPC subcomplexes, little is known about the regulation of NPC functions by posttranslational modifications. We used a systematic approach to show that more than half of NPC proteins were conjugated to ubiquitin. In particular, Nup159, a nucleoporin exclusively located on the cytoplasmic side of the NPC, was monoubiquitylated by the Cdc34/SCF (Skp1–Cdc53–F-box E3 ligase) enzymes. Preventing this modification had no consequences on nuclear transport or NPC organization but strongly affected the ability of Nup159 to target the dynein light chain to the NPC. This led to defects in nuclear segregation at the onset of mitosis. Thus, defining ubiquitylation of the yeast NPC highlights yet-unexplored functions of this essential organelle in cell division.
Introduction
The nuclear pore complex (NPC) is the unique selective gate for the bidirectional transport of macromolecules across the nuclear envelope. NPC is also one of the largest assemblies of defined structure in the cell, with a size of ~50 MD. NPCs are common to all eukaryotes and are composed of ~30 distinct nucleoporins (Nups), a broadly conserved set of proteins that have been fully cataloged in both yeast and vertebrates (Rout et al., 2000; Cronshaw et al., 2002; Alber et al., 2007). NPCs are organized in five distinct substructures composed of precise Nups subcomplexes and corresponding to specific locations and functions. The membrane ring composed of transmembrane proteins anchors the NPC in the nuclear envelope, whereas outer and inner rings form the NPC core scaffold and are connected by linker Nups. Nups containing FG (phenylalanine/glycine) repeats are mainly responsible for the transport function of the NPC by mediating interactions between the NPC and transport receptors (Alber et al., 2007).
Although research has revealed much about the molecular architecture and roles of the NPC subcomplexes, little is known about the regulation of NPC functions by posttranslational modifications. Phosphorylation of Nups by mitotic kinases, including Cdk1 or NIMA-related kinases, has been proposed to mediate NPC disassembly during prophase (Macaulay et al., 1995; Glavy et al., 1997, 2007; Onischenko et al., 2005; Lusk et al., 2007; Laurell et al., 2011). Function of the NPC in nuclear transport is also regulated via phosphorylation of FG-Nups by extracellular signal–regulated kinase (Kosako et al., 2009). In higher eukaryotes, Nup96 is ubiquitylated and degraded by the proteasome in a cell cycle–dependent manner (Chakraborty et al., 2008). High-throughput datasets of ubiquitylated proteins only identified some yeast Nups as being modified (Nup84, Nup145, Nup120, Nup157, Nup60, and Nic96) without validation nor precise information on the extent of ubiquitylation and functions of such modifications (Hitchcock et al., 2003; Peng et al., 2003).
In this work, we systematically analyze ubiquitylation of the yeast NPC and find that more than half of NPC proteins are conjugated to ubiquitin. These modifications are not simply related to proteasome-dependent protein turnover of the NPC but, as exemplified by Nup159 ubiquitylation, participate to the cell cycle progression.

