<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Tachi>
<Source: Journal of Natural History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 575>
<End Header>

Introduction
The larvae of tachinid flies are endoparasitoids of insects and other arthropods.
Host data for tachinid parasitoids have been compiled for much of the world,
primarily by Arnaud (1978: North America), Crosskey (1973: Australian Region,
1976: Oriental Region), Guimarães (1977: South America), Herting (1960: Western
Palearctic Region), Tschorsnig and Herting (1994: Middle Europe) and Shima (2006:
Japan). These data show that tachinids exploit a broad diversity of insect hosts and
that some groups use a taxonomically restrictive range of hosts (e.g. most members of
the subfamily Phasiinae parasitize only Heteroptera). From published records, species
of the genus Exorista Meigen are known to parasitize hosts belonging to the orders
Lepidoptera, Hymenoptera (sawflies), Mantodea and Orthoptera.
Exorista is one of the largest genera in the tribe Exoristini (subfamily Exoristinae),
with approximately 150 species worldwide. Members of this genus are classified
into eight subgenera (Herting and Dely-Draskovits 1993). Tachi and Shima (2008)
inferred the phylogenetic relationships of these subgenera from morphological characters.
In the study, five subgenera, Adenia Robineau-Desvoidy, Podotachina Brauer
and Bergenstamm, Ptilotachina Brauer and Bergenstamm, Exoristella Mesnil and Exorista, formed a distinct clade, whereas Spixomyia Crosskey was non-monophyletic
and Thrycolyga Rondani was of uncertain systematic position.
Three new species of subgenus Spixomyia from Malaysia and Indonesia are
described below and redescriptions of E. doddi (Curran) and E. ladelli (Baranov) are
given. The diagnostic characters of the male postabdomens of these species are illustrated.
A preliminary key to the 16 species of Spixomyia known from East Asia and the
Oriental Region is also provided. Morphological data from these species are combined
with data from Tachi and Shima (2008) and analysed phylogenetically. The resultant
tree is used to infer the evolutionary pattern of host use in the genus Exorista.
Materials and methods
Type and voucher materials are from the following collections: Biosystematics
Laboratory, Kyushu University (BLKU); Deutsches Entomologisches Institut,
Eberswalde, Germany (DEI); Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation,
Universiti Malaysia Sabah, Malaysia (ITBC); Institute of Zoology, Academia Sinica,
Beijing, China (IZAS); Museum Zoologicum Bogoriense, Indonesia (MZB); and
Natural History Museum, London, UK (NHM).
The width of the vertex was measured between the inner margins of the compound
eyes in comparison with the width of the head in dorsal view. The eye height and
the width of the gena were measured in lateral view. The width of the parafacial at
mid height was measured in the horizontal position. The pedicel and first flagellomere
were measured in lateral view, and the width of the first flagellomere was measured at
the widest point. Terminology used to describe the adult structures follows McAlpine
(1981), except for that of the male postabdomen, which follows Sinclair (2000). The phylogenetic analysis was based on the morphological characters used by
Tachi and Shima (2008). Thirty morphological characters (Appendix 1) were equally
weighted and treated as unordered. Unknown character states were coded as “?”.
Five species examined in this paper were added to the terminal taxa of the previous
data matrix (Table 1). The nexus file analysed in this study is available from
Supplementary material. Winthemia venusta (Meigen) (tribe Winthemiini) was used
for rooting the generated trees, because molecular data suggest that the Winthemiini
is the probable sister group to the remaining groups within the subfamily Exoristinae
(Tachi and Shima 2010). Maximum parsimony analysis was performed using PAUP
4.0b10 (Swofford 2002). A heuristic search with random stepwise addition was conducted,
using a random addition sequence of taxa, tree bisection reconnection branch
swapping and 100 random replications. 

