<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Alves-Silva and Del-Claro>
<Source: Journal of Natural History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 584>
<End Header>

Methods
The behavioural observations (all occurrence sampling, see Altmann 1974) were carried
out in a tropical savanna area (cerrado, sensu stricto, see Goodland 1971) of Clube
de Caça e Pesca Itororó de Uberlândia (CCPIU), Minas Gerais State, Brazil (15?57’S,
48?12’W; 863 m), in August, 2008. We tagged shrubs (n = 20) of S. lycocarpum
Journal of Natural History 395
of similar phenological state and size (one to two metres in height) infested with
E. brasiliensis, and as soon as an aggregation of membracids was found by active
search, we registered: the number of individuals and their stage of development; the
presence of thrips (larvae or adults, and their numbers) and if they were attached to a
membracid’s body; the body part used by the thrips; and the presence of ants tending
the membracids.
Fieldwork observations were made in the mornings from 08:00 to 11:00
(n = 10 days). Each day, two S. lycocarpum individuals were chosen by sort, and we
spent 90 minutes of observations on themembracid aggregation present on each plant,
either on the leaves or on the branches, totalling 30 hours of field observation. Each
plant observed was used only once.
Seven individuals of E. brasiliensis (three adults and four nymphs) infested with
thrips were collected from S. lycocarpum plants other than the ones used in the observations,
and placed individually in small plastic tubes (5 cm in diameter and 6 cm in
height) and taken to the laboratory in order to observe the thrips’ behaviour under the
stereomicroscope. The membracids were kept in the tubes for three days and observations
were made for 15 minutes every two hours, from 08:00 to 18:00. In each period of
observation, we registered the presence or absence of A. dictyotus on the membracids’
bodies. Another eight membracids (four adults and four nymphs) that were not associated
with thrips were also taken to the laboratory, in order to offer them for thrips
which eventually had left their hosts by means of the death of the latter.
In March 2010, we conducted complementary observations on the same plants
used in 2008.We investigated the interactions of thrips, tending ants and membracids,
as earlier observations showed that not only the membracids, but also ants could dislocate
or inhibit the presence of thrips in the colonies of membracids. We registered
whenever there were E. brasiliensis parasitized and what species of ants were present
at the aggregation. Moreover, more thrips were collected in the field and taken to the
laboratory in order to observe their feeding behaviour on the membracids. The observations
involved one adult and eight larvae of the thrips, which were put into a Petri
dish on a leaf of S. lycocarpum infested with E. brasiliensis (12 nymphs and two adults).
The Petri dish was put under a stereomicroscope and filmed with a Motic Moticam
2000® (Sony Electronic Inc., California, USA) digital camera for five hours.
We performed descriptive statistical analysis (mean and standard deviation (SD))
regarding the number of thrips and membracids sampled as well as their stage of
development. To compare the difference in the numbers of adults and immatures of
E. brasiliensis we made a Mann-Whitney U test, given that data did not present normal
distribution. For thrips we made a non-parametric goodness of fit chi-square test,
grouping the data for all 20 plants, both because of the small number of individuals
found and also because in many plants the presence of thrips was zero as recommended
in Wimp and Whitham 2001. 

