<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Moraes, Duarte, Miller>
<Source: Journal of Natural History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 587>
<End Header>

Thoracic segments ferruginous dorsally, yellowish ventrally. Legs brown, tibiae
without spines, tibial spurs 0:2:4, asymmetrical and well-developed; tarsi with spines
randomly distributed on posterior surface, first tarsomere with length equal to the
sum of the others, arolium cordate. Fore wing triangular with outer margin straight.
Dorsal surface ferruginous brown; oblique, postmedian band from costal margin to
inner margin, two dorsal white spots on band: one between R3 and R4, the other
between R4 and R5, the latter not visible in males; whitish spot across the distal end
discal cell and between M1 and M2, more evident in females. Ventral surface beige,
brighter triangular area extends from vertex to anal angle, pattern of spots similar to
the dorsal surface, with additional spots between M3 and CuA1, CuA2 and CuP, CuP
and 2A. Colour pattern of dorsal hind wings variable, usually orange at costal and
external margin and discal region white or yellowish. Ventral hind wing similar but
paler, especially along the outer margin.
Wing venation: fore wing with 14 longitudinal veins. Radius with five branches;
subcosta separate from R1 at base, terminating beyond half of the length of the costal
margin; discal cell half the length of the costal margin, partially closed, triangular,
reduced at end cell; chorda ellipsoidal, extended slightly beyond end discal cell; R1
and R2 arising from one-third and two-thirds the length of discal cell respectively,
both ending at costal margin; R3 and R4 stalked, separated beyond the distal half of
the costal margin; R3 + R4 and R5 separate at the distal end of chorda; R3 ending near
apex, R4 and R5 ending at outer margin. Origin of M2 and M3 proximal at base; M1,
M2 andM3 equidistant at distal portion; origin of CuA1 at three-fourths of the length
of the discal cell, and CuA2 at half the length of the discal cell; CuP arising at the base
of discal cell; accessory cell, usually present posterior to discal cell, closed by cross vein
m3-cua1. Origin of 2A and 3A at the wing base, connected by cross vein 2a-3a; 3A not
reaching the outer margin. Hind wing with nine longitudinal veins. Discal cell open.
Vein Sc + R1 ending before apex; Rs and M1 stalked slightly less than one-fourth the
length of the costal margin; M2, M3, CuA1 and CuA2 arising near the accessory cell
formed by the cross vein m3-cua1; 1A + 2A and 3A not forked at base and ending at
outer margin.
Abdominal segments yellow or whitish with tergites A1–A3 brown; ventral surface
of all segments yellowish, with a prominent scale tuft at the end of abdomen.
Male genitalia: tegumen rectangular in dorsal view. Uncus with three lobes, lateral
lobes wider than medial one. Gnathos excavate posteriorly, dorsal and ventral arms
sclerotized, fused anteriorly. Distal end of valva aquiline, inner surface with tooth-like
projection; upper margin convex beyond the costa, lower margin excavate; costa sclerotized.
Vinculum rectangular. Subscaphium moderately sclerotized. Sacculus weakly
developed, consisting of a fold on the inner surface of the valva, oriented anteriorly.
Saccus developed, anterior projections rounded and apically curved. Juxta apparently
absent. Penis recurved and contorted; spines located in a sclerotized plate at the distal
region; vesica lacking cornuti. Coecum developed, longer than the maximum diameter
of the ejaculatory bulb foramen, usually ornamented with ridges.
Female genitalia: eighth tergum with anterior margin concave, central band
weakly sclerotized, extending beyond the middle portion but never reaching the
posterior margin; posterior half subtriangular or sometimes slightly rounded, with lateral
margin sinuous. Lamella antevaginalis weakly sclerotized. Lamella postvaginalis
absent. 

