<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Rosenberg>
<Source: American Historical Review>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 563>
<End Header>

When the statistical experts at the League of Nations asked for random groups
of subjects living in areas with rampant tuberculosis who could be monitored over
a period of years, Algeria was the only place in the French Empire where it was
practical to undertake such work. The Pasteur Institute provided vaccines and laboratory
services, as local branches did elsewhere. Leading Pasteur scientists worked
with the medical faculty in Algiers: they helped train doctors and collaborated in
public health campaigns. Those ties enabled Calmette to enlist the colonial government’s
help where others, offering vastly greater resources, had failed. The director
of public health services in Algeria, the indefatigable Lucien Raynaud, sought
out the support of the Rockefeller Foundation in 1923 for his chronically underfunded
office. The director of the Rockefeller Foundation’s International Health
Board in New York, Frederick Russell, showed immediate interest and dispatched
his deputy, Selskar Gunn, to Algeria the next fall. Gunn spent three weeks in Algeria
and returned an enthusiastic advocate.80 Raynaud clearly made a good impression.
Richard Pearce, who accompanied Gunn, noted in his diary: “Raynaud in public
health is a corker—splendid administrator and excellent grasp of problems, but he
finds Government slow to furnish funds for anything not already on paper.”81 This
auspicious start soon collapsed, when the new Socialist governor-general of Algeria,
Maurice Violette, proved wary of outside influences and dissuaded Raynaud from
working with the Americans.82 He could not, however, turn down Calmette’s advances.
With the help of the French government in Algeria, Calmette took a haphazard
vaccine program like the ones in Indochina, in Senegal, and on the French
mainland and, by 1935, turned it into a random trial with a control group that continued
into the 1950s.
UNLIKE THE CADASTRAL SURVEYS and censuses carried out by the British Raj after the
1857 mutiny or the state-sponsored urban reform projects in Morocco following
World War I, the Algiers BCG trial was run by a para-public research institute. If
it took advantage of inequalities wrought by the French presence in Algeria, this was no “high modernist” attempt to mark boundaries or remake the world.83 It was a
defensive effort to respond to scientific critics and would-be regulators.
The Pasteur Institute in Algiers had created a lab to produce BCG before controversy
erupted in Europe, around the same time Calmette gave his work-in-progress
lecture at the Academy of Medicine (1924). For the first few years, the local
branch of the Pasteur Institute gave samples to doctors and veterinarians who requested
them, and began recording their own efforts at shelters and dispensaries in
several cities. In the wake of the public controversies of 1927–1928 and the Lu¨beck
catastrophe, Yves Biraud, director of epidemiology at the League of Nations, joined
the team in Algiers. Biraud had worked with Calmette before, reviewing and helping
to present the initial statistical evidence that Calmette published in 1927 to buttress
his laboratory work. Now the microbiologist called in Biraud, the statistician, in the
initial stages to help design the study.84
Under Biraud’s watch, the Algiers team limited their purview. Instead of working
with dispensaries wherever they could find them, they concentrated on the Kasbah,
with a population density of more than 2,000 people per hectare.85 The authors
asserted that focusing on a single poor neighborhood reduced the possibility of selection
bias. All of the families there endured the same grinding poverty. 

