<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Grafton>
<Source: American Historical Review>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 591>
<End Header>

Material evidence confirms that Pastorius began to master all the techniques of
compilation as a student. He owned a linked set of textbooks, now in the Library
Company of Philadelphia. They include chronological tables for world history from
the Creation to the present drawn up by a Braunschweig theologian, Christoph
Schrader; introductions to the tradition of historiography from antiquity to modernity,
and to the genealogy of rulers from ancient Rome to the present; and a short
textbook on geography by a Gymnasium professor, Heinrich Schaevius. Pastorius
signed and dated the last of these in 1674.102 The books themselves, annotated
sparsely but systematically, show how he read his way into mastery of a world of
scholarly methods and materials. Schrader’s chronological tables, which presented
world history in the skeletal form normal at the time, were dated, in the traditional
way, from the Creation forward: Pastorius followed the custom that had become
widespread in the seventeenth century and added a B.C. date, reckoned backward
from the Incarnation, for the start of world history. Where Schaevius, whose brief
handbook of geography Pastorius read, mentioned Pliny’s Natural History as a model
compilation on cosmography, Pastorius added a marginal reference to the Renaissance
classic in the field, the Cosmography of Sebastian Mu¨nster.103 And where
Schaevius discussed systems for describing the world’s land masses, Pastorius noted,
in very up-to-date terms indeed, that “the whole land mass of the world can also be
divided into three parts, or great islands, around which the ocean flows: the first contains Europe, Asia, and Africa, the second America, and the third the Magellanic
lands that are also called Austral [southern] and unknown.”104 Most revealing of all,
though, is the list of writers on the early church, starting with the apostles and including
pagans as well as Christians, that Pastorius copied into one of these books
from the dissident church historian Gottfried Arnold’s work on the life of the early
church.105 Every book invited the reader to engage in bibliographical compilation;
every ancient authority invited the reader to make comparisons with modern counterparts.
Pastorius not only applied the techniques of the polyhistors, he shared their
tastes. Like Kircher, the Jesuit Michael Pexenfelder, whose odd little encyclopedia
of the arts and sciences Pastorius owned, took an interest in ciphers and other forms
of writing designed to conceal one’s meaning from curious readers.106 He described
steganography as “a clandestine form of writing, which uses secret signs that a few
have agreed on.” These could be letters, standing in for one another, or numbers,
or “new characters.”107 Here Pastorius wrote “see the next page, near the bottom.”108
He covered the next opening, which deals with the use of metal characters in printing,
with ingenious prints of many different kinds of leaf. In the bottom margin he wrote
that characters could be “natural, the progeny of the gardens and the fields, some
of which appear in the margin, or artificial. Of the first category, absinth stands for
A, beta for B, the crocus for C, ferns for F, and so on. Botanists understand them
very well.”109 Here we see that Pastorius’s fascination with language, in all its texture,
richness, and variation, was rooted in the culture of the old Holy Roman Empire—a
world in which cryptography offered the possibility of sending secretmessages, something
every chancery and resident ambassador regularly did, and inspired the production
of a rich body of poetry by a kind of combinatorics—rather like modern
language poetry. Pastorius’s mystical vision of language had its roots in a very particular
milieu and moment.
