<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Olcott>
<Source: Journal of Women's History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 592>
<End Header>

In mid-June, thousands of people descended upon Mexico City for the intergovernmental conference and parallel NGO tribune, including an estimated 1,600 reporters—the largest number to attend any UN conference up to that point.2 The IWY events generated souvenirs ranging from buttons and potholders to booklets in multiple languages, as organizers memorialized even at the moment of representation. The reporting on the IWY events differed markedly from coverage of, for example, the UN's conferences on the environment or food. To start with, journalists reported extensively on hairstyles and sartorial choices as proxies for political and ideological orientations. Ashraf Pahlavi, the Iranian Shah's twin sister, sported a western-style suit and minimal jewelry. Imelda Marcos, the "iron butterfly," wore traditional Filipina dress and traveled with a large entourage. The Chinese delegates donned simple, dark blue, pajama-style outfits. Women from various African countries piled their hair into elaborate braids and wore colorful kaftans. Such descriptions appeared in more mainstream publications like the New York Times and Le Monde as well as more specialized publications such as the African American Chicago Defender and the IWY tribune newspaper Xilonen.
Journalists homed in on these corporeal displays for a host of reasons. Peggy Simpson recalls that her editors pushed for such coverage and even ran under her byline a story about the "sex appeal of the Soviet cosmonaut" Valentina Tereshkova, who led the Soviet delegation.3 Many reporters had grown accustomed to reporting on women's dress at special events such as inaugurations and state dinners. For those who had covered other UN conferences or international political meetings, the visual landscape of the IWY conference offered a striking change from the conventional sea of gray suits. As every major metropolitan newspaper covered the conference and its attendant parties, press conferences, and diplomatic maneuverings, journalists highlighted these embodied performances in their efforts to convey the novelty of the IWY events. The Mexico City dailies carried the most detailed coverage, but the Parisian newspaper Le Monde, for example, sent a reporter to Latin America for six months before the conference, producing an ethnographic series about women's status. This extensive media coverage generated both excitement and anxiety among organizers and participants, who saw an opportunity to gain a larger audience for their causes but feared misrepresentation by the "mass communications media."
Amid heated debates about the media's role in shaping perceptions of women and a growing sense of purpose about writing women into the historical record, organizers and participants exhibited particular concern about the print media's role in knowledge production. Participants battled to influence print media not only to have a hand in crafting this first draft of "herstory" but also to describe the boundaries of feminism and to draw [End Page 25] a bright line between "politics" and "women's issues."4 Efforts to shape media coverage of IWY set in relief two critical and connected aspects of transnational feminists' role in human rights struggles over the freedom of information. First, feminists recognized that the "mass communications media" powerfully informed the "common sense"—in the Gramscian sense of fashioning and disseminating hegemonic discourses—about women's rights, sex roles, and imagined possibilities for change. Second, arguments over the media turned on the question of what rightfully belonged in the "public sphere." Indeed, the deliberations offer a textbook example of what the historically minded political theorist Nancy Fraser describes in her widely cited essay about subaltern counterpublics within the public sphere, in particular her problematization of the public/private divide, her insistence on competing counterpublics, and her attention to power differentials even in spaces of apparent equality.5

