<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Xincheng>
<Source: Journal of World History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 569>
<End Header>

The thing that touches Chinese world historians most about global history is that some of its basic tenets were quite agreeable with the Marxist ideas on world history. The late Professor Wu Yujin, general editor of the above-mentioned general world history textbook, who consistently occupied himself with theoretical issues of world history, came to the conclusion that, according to Marxism, human history became world history, that is, an interconnected whole, only when human society had reached a certain stage. In other words, world history is the product of this particular stage. Based on this, as Wu argues, world history as an academic discipline is to account for the process of this transformation and to see the world as an interconnected whole. And therefore, the Soviet general world history model of separate nation-state histories with a focus on chronological development within each society to the neglect of horizontal connections must be rectified and corrected. In this connection, the holistic trans-nation-state narrative of global history coincides with Wu’s thinking. Wu made reference to Barraclough and Stavrianos in his writings. 
Global history’s criticism of Occidentcentrism is a second reason why it is highly regarded in China. Chinese scholars have always been antagonistic to Occidentcentrism. The reasons are not difficult to fathom—first, national sentiments; second, political stance; third, academic positions. 
Concerning national sentiments, Liang Qichao advocated as early as 1902 when he published his “New History” that “nationalist” histories were to inspire patriotism and identity formation among people. And in line with this, Zhou Gucheng said, “there was nothing particularly wrong with European bourgeois historians placing Europe at the center of world history. But when we talk about world history, this Eurocentric approach becomes unacceptable. Patriotism says no to it.” This patriotic feeling occasionally looms even these days. In 1998, two Chinese scholars published a book titled Shijie Wenming Guguo Shulue (A Concise History of Ancient World Civilizations) by the Shanghai Education Press.21 As reviewers pointed out, the book aims to give full expression to the splendor of ancient Asian and African civilizations while diluting the ancient European civilization as a gesture to negate Eurocentrism. The reviewer also pointed out that this was a continuation of the late “Zhou Gucheng’s idea.”22
China’s political stance was closely related to the Cold War environment. During the second half of the twentieth century, China conducted two rounds of debate concerning general world history writing, world history systems, and periodization in particular. Both rounds of debate targeted Eurocentrism. It was widely believed that the issue was politically sensitive to the progressive nature of the emerging socialist system. China’s academic positions are only too obvious to merit further elaboration. Except for those who were “deliberately blinding themselves,” no one fails to notice the fact that all peoples of the world contributed to human history in various ways and at different times. The Chinese, as a people boasting several thousand years of history and civilization alien to the West, are particularly sensitive to this. For the above-mentioned reasons, Chinese scholars, regardless of their general evaluations of global history, have always approved of its anti-Occidentcentristic stance. 
The coming of global history also agrees with China’s current academic pursuit of innovation. The sweeping changes in the world, China’s rapid development, and in particular the intensified globalization process during the past few decades, have sparked a new impulse for innovation in the Chinese academy, especially the philosophy and social sciences sector. 
