<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Downs>
<Source: American Historical Review>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 587>
<End Header>

WHILE HISTORIANS TYPICALLY INTERPRET the disputed 1876 U.S. presidential election
in terms of its impact upon postwar Reconstruction or its allegedly fraudulent outcome,
many contemporaries instead saw the crisis as proof of the nation’s fundamental
fragility. They worried that the line between violence and politics—obscured
by the Civil War—might evaporate completely in the heat of a contested presidency.
With the disintegration of democratic institutions and habits, the U.S. might fall into
a spiral of civil wars. One anxious army general feared that the country might soon
collapse like “Mexico and the Central American countries” unless party leaders
tamped down the conflict. This turn to Mexican analogies to both describe anxieties
about civil war and chart a path to stabilization was not an anomaly but part of a
widespread, mostly forgotten discourse in the 1870s United States. The shorthand
terms “Mexicanization” and “Mexicanized,” born during overlapping 1860s wars,
spread rapidly after the disputed 1876 election, appearing inmany hundreds of newspaper
articles, in private correspondence, and on the floor of Congress. Soon-to-be
president Rutherford B. Hayes grimly disavowed the possibility of Mexicanization,
a Harper’s Weekly cartoon mocked the “Scarecrow” of “Mexicanism,” and The Nation
made a solemn observation: “we hear every day strong expressions of a desire, and
also of a determination, that this government shall not be ‘Mexicanized.’ ” Legal
scholar John Codman Hurd, in his 1881 political handbook, defined a “Mexicanization
of institutions” in which “all party contests have the character of civil war”:
“The same thing would occur in this country,” he wrote, “if a party, on the theory
of a ‘war of ideas,’ should attempt to retain the control of the general Government
against the popular vote.”1 On first glance, this discourse makes little sense. Not just U.S. narratives but
much of modern history rests upon presumptions of a United States that was stable,
analogous to Europe, and predatory toward Latin America. A discourse that used
open-ended analogies to Mexico to explore the nation’s fragility fits none of these
frameworks. Furthermore, the U.S. did not, of course, sink into a cycle of civil wars
in the 1870s. Examining the Mexicanization discourse need not, however, invite attempts
at counter-history; instead, analyzing the analogy makes aspects of the postwar
U.S. newly visible. By reading the period through the lens of Mexicanization,
historians can denaturalize the United States’ process of stabilization and consider
new ways of thinking about state fragility, stability, and the practice of transnational
history. While U.S. historians have written voluminously about the postwar period,
they have rarely focused on the country’s path toward stabilization. The failure to
ask why the end of the Civil War meant the end of all civil wars in the United States
stems in part from the much-lamented, dissipating tendency of U.S. historians to
work within exceptionalist frameworks, in part from the undeniable significance of
emancipation, Reconstruction, and sectional reconciliation in shaping the view of
the postwar era.
But a tendency to discount stabilization extends beyond historians of the United
States. Many scholars emphasize crisis and conflict even in periods of relative stability,
driven by the narrative power of rupture, the association of stability with ahistorical
stasis, and the negative example of triumphant national histories. While the
binary of stability and instability can indeed produce flat, decontextualized analysis,
stabilization—the dynamic, manmade process by which states emerge from crises—
“is as challenging a historical problem as revolution,” argued Charles S. Maier.2
Nowhere are these opportunities more evident than in the famed debate about stability
after the English Civil War. 

