<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Huang>
<Source: Journal of World History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 559>
<End Header>

Toward a Conclusion
The overarching aim in this article has been to highlight the historical conditions in which the ceramic production visual genre emerged. It emphasizes the historical order in which individual sets of Taoye tu images were created, including various subgenres of porcelain production illustration—imperial painting albums, export, locally produced woodblock prints, and foreign translations. Examining their individual contexts of production and juxtaposing the subgenres with each other demonstrate the history of exchange and influence between disparate people and media in the creation of different Taoye tu production images. The reach of such images spanned the imperial court to the southern coastal and inland areas of Jiangnan and Jiangxi province, and to Europe and Japan. During the two major centuries over which empires gave way to nation-states across the world, there existed a community of global viewers with a keen interest in porcelain and its making. Audiences from China to Europe and Japan occupying different strata of society shared a viewing practice that was process-oriented and linear.
Craig Clunas has studied the formation of a "discourse on things" through his investigation of late Ming connoisseurship texts. He makes the point that the rise of texts and the discourse on hierarchies of tastes reflected the commodification of books and visual knowledge among elite literati in early modern China.52 He further concludes that a discourse on things and taste reflected the elite's anxiety over blurring status distinctions in a Ming society driven by active consumption. As in Pierre Bourdieu's study of the social stratification of aesthetic taste, for Clunas, the commodification of knowledge in the form of such books thus provided a way for the elite to maintain status distinctions.53 The analysis in this article reveals a migration and transmission of texts and images that also seem to demonstrate an increasing interest in knowledge about porcelain in the latter half of the eighteenth and the nineteenth century. But instead of emphasizing my analysis on the causes for such exchanges in a purely economic sense, I draw attention to the intricacies of historical relationships (sometimes exploitative)—including origin, media, and order—by which information about Jingdezhen porcelain production appeared.
The past few decades have produced new historical scholarship about China's imperial past that stresses its global nature over its isolationist tendencies, an idea cogently put forth by the historiography influenced by the eminent historian John K. Fairbank's idea of a Sino-centric world order.54 Links have been found in Qing management of territory to the Qing empire's connection to the Inner Asian continent, to the influx of New World silver, and to Qing reception of science, technology, and astronomy.55 As a result, consumption as a social and economic phenomenon belongs not solely to Europe, but to China as well.56 Most recently, historian Robert Finlay has rightly asserted porcelain's longue durée history as significant to shaping a global culture. The exchange of decorative designs and mutual influence often rendered indistinguishable set roles of producer and consumer, creating a global culture. Along these same themes, the circuitous routes on which visual images of production traveled reinforce the view that "china" (porcelain) effected a global culture. Specific to the pictorial themes discussed in this article, production as a visual theme was consumed as a product in itself, and the mode of viewing, a historically constructed visuality about porcelain production, was what gained global purchase.
