<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Grandin>
<Source: American Historical Review>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 582>
<End Header>

Embedded in such questions is the principle that only a morally responsible nation
could be sovereign. What was judged moral changed according to the circumstance:
at times it meant the ability to exercise effective control of a population and
territory; at other times it meant democratic or procedural legitimacy—with the best
way to protect foreign private property serving as the variable determining which of
these two standards Washington applied. But in either case, what counted was that
the United States reserved the right, often invoking its own sense of exceptionalism,
to be the judge.
In marked contrast, Spanish-American republics were conceived into confederation,
nations among nations, confirmed at the time of independence by a general
acceptance of colonial administrative borders as the limits of the new republics. In
a series of post-independence treaties, conferences, constitutions, and declarations,
regional diplomats and jurists revitalized the doctrine of uti possidetis, or “as you
possess,” which under Roman law had referred to the control of territory at the end
of a conflict. They were not the first to apply the standard to the process of decolonization;
the United States had done so earlier, during its revolution, in an effort
to reach a settlement with Great Britain. Yet it was in South and Central America,
where foreign ministries throughout the nineteenth century repeatedly invoked what
they had taken to calling “uti possidetis of 1810” to insist that no part of the Americas
lacked sovereignty, that the “principle developed into a rule.”48
Despite these legal affirmations, much of the region was in fact outside of administrative
control (including large swaths of the Amazon, the coastal islands, Patagonia,
and northern Mexico), and border lines were vague and contested; valuable
resources such as rubber and oil were found on one side or the other, leading to more
than a century of episodic conflict and occasional full-scale wars, from the 1825
confrontation between Brazil and Argentina over Montevideo to the Chaco War between Paraguay and Bolivia in the 1930s. Yet every diplomatic effort to resolve
these disputes appealed to uti possidetis, which solidified the legitimacy of the principle
and led to its acceptance despite conflicting interpretations.49 (Brazil tended
to emphasize uti possidetis de facto, which stressed effective possession; Spanish
America defended uti possidetis juris, which invested legitimate possession in Spanish
royal decrees.) By the early 1900s, the doctrine had become the foundational principle
of what Latin American jurists called American international law, based on the
ideal of non-aggression, interdependence, and solidarity rather than on realpolitik
rivalry.
In the United States, an ideal of individual natural rights immediately harmonized
with and reinforced a definition of sovereignty conditioned on the protection
of those rights. In Latin America, the link between a “common good” notion of
citizenship and a “common good” vision of territorial sovereignty was at first formalistic,
more of an analogy than mutually constitutive: individuals, like nations,
exist not in isolation but in harmony, bound together as equals by mutual needs and
limitations. But over time there developed a more dependent relationship. Efforts
to institutionalize social rights entailed state intervention in the economy, which
often provoked domestic and foreign interests to retaliate. Coups executed or supported
by the U.S. in Guatemala in 1954, Brazil in 1964, and Chile in 1973 are among
the most well-known examples of such retaliation, though there are many other examples;
between 1898 and 1994, according to historian John Coatsworth, Washington
had “intervened successfully to change governments in Latin America a total
of at least 41 times.” 

