<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Aderinto>
<Source: Journal of Colonialism and Colonial History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 579>
<End Header>

Predicting the Future
The statistical information collected by the Aboriginal Protectors, Government Residents and the Wesleyan schools in the period 1840-50 recorded a large number of deaths from disease amongst the Aboriginal population in contact with the settled areas, particularly amongst Aboriginal children. This illness and death jeopardised the Wesleyan schools in particular: Protector Symmons reported to Hutt that the Aboriginal parents were less willing to cooperate with the schools because they were worried about their children dying.108 In 1843 Aboriginal illness was described as an "epidemic." The increasing numbers of deaths associated with the disease—influenza and most likely tuberculosis—gave the settlers a kind of demographic certainty that previously they had lacked. At last they felt they were able to predict something about the Aboriginal population: its demise. In perceiving Aboriginal illness and death as part of the demise of the Aboriginal population, settlers and Aboriginal protectors began reflecting on the Aboriginal population in a different way. No longer a powerful violent threat, the Aborigines were deemed weak; and survivors of the epidemics were perceived as a potential labouring population. While ideas about the inability of Aborigines to become civilised had circulated in the settler imagination from as early as the 1820s, Stirling had first commented about their doomed fate in 1835: "The aboriginal race must gradually disappear as the country is occupied, and I fear that neither the humane intentions of His Majesty," he wrote, "nor the most anxious and judicious measures on the part of the local government to carry the Royal wishes into effect, can prevent the ulterior extinction of that race...."109 Hutt reiterated and queried this fate in 1839 when he wrote to Lord Glenelg:
Are they to be swept off by aggression and disease, or will they pine away under a feeling of their immeasurable inferiority to the white men; or, if they survive, will it be to sink into a state a little better than the slave, or gradually to be absorbed into and become one people with their intruders? The last, however, apparently unattainable, is the result which in our conduct towards them we should ever keep in view. 110
In the decade 1840-50 statistical knowledge about Western Australia's Indigenous people was used by colonial authorities to test this theory about their future. In March 1844 Symmons collected evidence to ascertain whether the Aboriginal population was decreasing. Given the "favourable circumstances" of climate and resources, Symmons stated that the Aborigines should rapidly be increasing. But the information he collected seemed to show that this was "certainly not the case." One possible reason for the decreasing numbers that Symmons gave was that the
Aboriginal women seldom rear... more than one or two children—a fact possibly to be attributed to their ever-roving habits, and consequent fatigue; their exposure to the hardships of the bush, and to the circumstances that the ceremony of weaning is usually postponed until the child has attained 4 or 5 years of age.111
Symmons was blaming ancient Aboriginal child rearing practices for the outcome of a low population, thus discounting European-introduced diseases and Aboriginal violence as affecting the population numerically, as was thought to be the case by others. He continued:
Such being some of the natural checks to a rapid increase of population, it may be easy to infer that the mortality occasioned by old age, casualties, or ... influenza ... must naturally tend to equalise the proportion of births and deaths among the Aboriginal tribes".112

