<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: JA>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Cook>
<Source: American Historical Review>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 577>
<End Header>

Following Bonnell and Hunt, it might be tempting to describe this as “beyond”:
the decisive methodological juncture at which commerce and culture, structure and
meaning, finally collapse. There are, however, a number of basic problems with such
a reading. One is that Johnson developed this mode of questioning during the early
1990s, at the very moment (or so we have been told) when the new cultural history
was falling into its “radically discursive” rut. Another is that Johnson was never
making this up from scratch. Indeed, if we go back to the 1995 dissertation on which
Soul by Soul was based, his citations point to a more interesting set of mergers: key
theoretical texts on “the social life of things” intermixed with legal history articles;
landmark works on antebellum slavery by Eugene Genovese, John Blassingame,
James Oakes, and Barbara Fields side by side with seminal studies of market cultures
by Karen Halttunen, Jackson Lears, Jean-Christophe Agnew, and John Kasson.82 In
retrospect, at least, it is easier to track the cross-currents. Agnew, for example, was
among the first U.S. historians to feature the work of Karl Polanyi (whose seminal
writings on “embeddedness” reverberate through much of Soul by Soul). Much the
same might be said about Halttunen’s uses of Norbert Elias, Georg Simmel, and
Erving Goffman—all important early theorists for opening up the “performative”
dimensions of class.83
The other key point is that Johnson was never working in a vacuum. Push beyond
slavery, in fact, and many of his central moves begin to look like broader ground- swells, part of an always unfinished cultural that has continued to migrate and
stretch, adapt and provoke. This still-unfolding process can be seen in the work of
Stanley, Calder, Sandage, Kamensky, Rockman, Glickman, and Mihm—all recent
historians of capitalism for whom signs and structures are deeply interwoven, never
the stuff of conceptual zero sums. Or the growing interest in circulatory systems that
cuts across Lipsitz’s records, Sandweiss’s photographs, Edwards’s novels, Von Eschen’s
jazz tours, and Dierks’s letters. Or the explicitly hybrid approaches to commodity
chains that run through Enstad, Zakim, Shank, Stein, Moreton, and Zimmerman.
Or the increasingly materialist studies of representation that connect
McGill’s newspapers, Casper’s books, Igo’s opinion polls, Zipp’s blueprints, and my
own work on black celebrity and the politics of global positioning.84
Should we read these recent developments as cultural history’s swan song? Its
reinvigoration? The latest phase of its imperialist plotting? Such rhetorics of supersession
ultimately reinforce the very same synecdoches I have sought to disrupt
throughout this essay. So let us conclude here not with competing futurology (new
“beyonds” for the same tired turns), but rather, with a series of broader suggestions
for rethinking the debate itself. First, we should keep in mind the long-running plasticity of cultural history, a
notoriously capacious category that has always entailed a mobile, unfinished project.
Before the new cultural history of the 1980s, there were dozens of older culturals
that pushed in a variety of competing directions. In a major review essay from 1968,
self-identified practitioner David Brion Davis sought to familiarize his AHR readers
with “recent directions in American cultural history.” But at that point, Davis was
summing up the myth and symbol scholarship that had first emerged with the American
studies movement. Push back another decade or two, and one finds Caroline
Ware’s Cultural Approach to History (1940), a landmark edited collection (sponsored
by the AHA) that included some of the era’s most innovative historians.
