<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: PS>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): Fortey>
<Source: Trilobite! Eyewitness to Evolution >
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 571>
<End Header>

I had marked the presence of fossils on a local map. They were described as the oldest fossils in the British Isles. What could be more irresistible? There was something extraordinarily exciting about tapping into a vein of such prehistory. The top dressing of the landscape of human tenancy was stripped away to reveal some deeper reality, layer after layer of geological time unpeeled in my imagination. While my long-suffering mother knitted or read, I beat the rocks at Nine Wells and Porth-y-rhaw*. These were places where the rocks were accessible by foot and could be broken by sheer effort. I did not even have a proper geological hammer. The fever of discovery was upon me. I learned how to break the hard rock so that it split in the same direction as the former sea floor—this way I was more likely to retrieve something recognizable. It was clear that tectonic forces had tipped the strata vertically. I had to scrabble to dislodge reasonable-sized blocks for breakage. I ignored the sharp pieces of gorse that speared the backs of my hands. Time had made the rock both hard and brittle: it seemed to want to break anywhere but in the right direction. On the broken surfaces there were scraps and fragments of what might, or might not have been the remains of past life: black patches, a little shinier than the rest of the rock. Then, at last, I found a trilobite. The rock simply parted around the animal, like some sort of revelation. The truth is that the fossil itself had rendered the rock weaker: it was predisposed to reveal itself, almost as if it desired disclosure. I was left holding two pieces of rock: in my left hand the positive impression of the creature itself (known as the part); in my right hand the negative mould which had once comprised its other half (the counterpart); the two together snuggling up to survive the vicissitudes of millions of years of entombment. There was a brownish stain on the fossil, but to me it was no disfigurement—surely what I held was the textbook come alive. Drawings and photographs could not compare with the joy of actually touching a find which seemed, in the egotistical glow of boyhood, dedicated to yourself alone. This was my first discovery of the animals that would change my life. The long thin eyes of the trilobite regarded me and I returned the gaze. More compelling than any pair of blue eyes, there was a shiver of recognition across 500 million years. 
I would one day learn that the trilobite had a name, Paradoxides. When we first exchanged glances I knew nothing of classification or nomenclature, and it did not matter to me: there was plenty of time to learn more. What I held was a specimen that fitted comfortably into the palm of my hand. It was clearly divided along its length into three lobes—a convex central portion and to each side of it identical, but slightly flattened, areas. These were the lobes implied by the name—trilobite. The whole animal seemed to bulge towards one end. I knew, by some principle which I could not articulate, that the wider end was the head of the animal. And of course upon this head there were the eyes. Despite the unfamiliar conformation of the fossil, I knew that eyes must always belong on heads. 











