<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: PS>
<Topic/Discipline: Biology>
<Author(s): J. Greene>
<Source:   Debating Darwin: Adventures of a Scholar>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 572>
<End Header>

All this, too, was called into question when the mechanical view of nature was extended to embrace not only the inorganic but also the organic world, a development that began when Descartes undertook to derive the present state of nature from previous states of the system of matter in motion through the operation of the laws of motion. This Cartesian enterprise was so bold, so appealing to the speculative intellect, that it was soon extended from astronomy and cosmology to geological transformations on the Earth's surface and thence, beginning with Erasmus Darwin and Jean Baptiste de Lamarck, to the origin and development of living forms. 
    The idea of extending the law-bound system of matter in motion to embrace the organic world seemed perfectly natural to those who proposed it, but the project had unforeseen consequences. It introduced foreign elements into the mechanistic world view—ideas of progress, levels of being, and the like—and thereby undermined the notion of nature as a machine. Animals could be thought of as automata—Descartes had already suggested this—but the idea that machines could evolve from simple to complex forms (including human beings) without the aid of a designing intelligence seemed preposterous. Both Lamarck and Erasmus Darwin felt compelled to postulate a "sublime Author of nature" (Lamarck), a "Cause of causes" (Erasmus Darwin), to explain the ability of animals to respond to the challenge of environmental change by developing new faculties and organs. The function of this supreme being, however, was not to create new organic forms by almighty fiat but rather to design the system of matter in motion in such a way that it would generate the living from the non-living and improve organic forms gradually through the operation of natural causes. Evolutionary theory led, not to atheism or agnosticism, but to evolutionary deism. But there was as yet no appealing metaphor to dramatize the conception of nature as a self-perfecting process of progressive improvement capable of giving rise to the scientist himself, nor was there as yet any scientifically credible "mechanism" (a word derived from the mechanical view of nature) to account for the changes of organic form disclosed in the fossil record. 
    It was Charles Darwin who coined the master metaphor that eventually dominated evolutionary thinking. Having decided to adopt the transmutation hypothesis shortly after his return from the voyage of the Beagle, Darwin began the search for the natural means by which populations of organisms were modified and kept adapted to changing circumstances. Finally, in the fall of 1838, after reading Thomas Malthus' famous Essay on the Principle of Population, Darwin hit upon the idea of a general organic struggle for existence in which those members of a species which happened to possess traits favorable to survival in their particular circumstances would be most likely to reach reproductive age and hence would spread those traits through subsequent generations, thereby gradually changing the character of the population. Casting about for a suitable name for this process of variation, population pressure, differential adaptedness, differential survival, and differential reproduction, Darwin chose the term "natural selection", in order, as he said, to "mark its relation to man's power of selection" in producing new breeds of plants and animals. 
  There was, of course, no selection in nature. Selection implies intelligent choice, of which nature knows nothing. What Darwin called natural selection might better have been called differential reproduction through the luck of the hereditary draw.
