<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: PS>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Fairclough>
<Source:  Martyred Village: Commemorating the 1944 Massacre at Oradour-sur-Glane>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 561>
<End Header>

Saturdays were often busy in Oradour and this one--four days after the Allied invasion of Normandy--was no exception. Saturday afternoon was a time for running errands, getting a haircut at the Café Duchêne, or chatting with neighbors. For the young men who often took a few hours to socialize in town on Saturday, there was the added attraction of the afternoon distribution of the tobacco ration. On this Saturday, school attendance was good because a medical check was scheduled for the afternoon. 
    At approximately two o'clock the midday calm was shattered by the appearance of German troops at the southeastern entrance to the village. The soldiers quickly blocked the entrances to Oradour. Sentinels fanned out and encircled the town and some of the neighboring farms. These 120 soldiers were members of the Der Führer regiment of the Waffen SS tank division Das Reich, which had been sent toward Limoges a few days before to fight the Resistance. As soldiers went from house to house, the Germans sent the town crier through the streets to call the population to assemble in the central marketplace. Meanwhile, soldiers in armored cars rounded up men working in nearby farms and fields. 
    According to survivors' accounts, most of Oradour's inhabitants obeyed the orders, believing they had nothing more to fear than a routine check of identity papers. Some, mostly men who feared being deported to Germany, concealed themselves in barns, attics, and basements. Martial Brissaud, for example, a nineteen-year-old whose family lived at the western edge of town, hid in the attic while the Germans searched the house. Later he sneaked into the garden, where he lay flat on the ground until he could escape to the woods beyond town. 
    The SS soldiers moved quickly through town, hunting people out of their houses and driving them toward the market square. When soldiers came to the makeshift school for refugee children from the Lorraine, eight-year-old Roger Godfrin fled out the back door of the school building. He hid for a while in a field of tall grass and then ran on toward the Glane. Though shot at by German soldiers, he made it across the river to safety. He was the only schoolchild in Oradour to survive. One other little boy survived, André Pinède, who was not attending school. 
    Within an hour the Germans had gathered the townspeople in the marketplace. Dr. Jacques Desourteaux, who had been out on a house call in a neighboring hamlet, was stopped as he drove back into town and ordered to join the crowd. At about three o'clock, the soldiers separated the women and children from the crowd, herded them to the church, and shut them in. Speaking through an interpreter, an officer addressed the 200 to 250 men remaining in the square. He announced that the SS knew of a cache of arms and munitions at Oradour and demanded that all those who possessed guns step forward. When nothing came of this, the officer turned to the mayor, Paul Desourteaux, and instructed him to designate hostages from among the townspeople. The mayor refused, offering himself and his sons instead. After taking Desourteaux back to the town hall for discussion, the Germans apparently changed their minds about singling out captives. Mayor Desourteaux returned to the crowd, and the officer announced that his men were going to search the town. 

