<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: PS>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Diggins>
<Source:  On Hallowed Ground: Abraham Lincoln and the Foundations of American History>
<Pages: >
<Wd Ct: 567>
<End Header>

More than a century ago, Lincoln had to wage intellectual war against just this kind of reasoning, for the denial of truth and the claim that all beliefs are a matter of circumstance was precisely the position that Southern politicians took to defend slavery. The defense of slavery was articulated in George Fitzhugh's book Sociology for the South, or the Failure of Free Society and in Henry Hughes's A Treatise on Sociology, Theoretical and Practical. In both books, the realities of the plantation replaced the ideals of philosophy. In the debates leading to the Civil War, the South had customs and convention on its side; it was defending local consensus. Lincoln rejected such claims, arguing for larger, national consensus—the "philosophical cause" of liberty, accessible to each and every human being. "Whenever the question [of slavery] shall be settled," Lincoln asserted, "it must be settled on some philosophical basis. No policy that does not rest on some philosophical public opinion can be permanently maintained." Whereas today many scholars hail the "end of philosophy," Lincoln hoped that politics could be elevated to the status of philosophy in order to address the most crucial moral issues facing the nation. Without a philosophical sensibility, all politics would be power and America would be unable to recognize the goals that it is failing to achieve. 
    To some historians today, the outbreak of the Civil War proves once and for all that American history can be neither consensual nor exceptional. A people who war among themselves can hardly be said to subscribe to a synthesis. In a text that greatly influenced the New Left, William Appleman Williams's The Contours of American History (1961), the author speculates why the American public has been so preoccupied with the Civil War. "Underlying that persistent involvement is the realization that the war undercuts the popular mythology that America is unique. Only a nation that avoided such a conflict could make a serious claim to being fundamentally different." 
    It does seem that the Civil War crisis compromises the idea of American consensus, and certainly it dramatized the breakdown of the constitutional system, which was, after all, specifically designed to control conflict. Yet as the historian Louis Hartz pointed out, that crisis was the one instance in American history when a region of the country no longer identified with its national history and instead asked to be considered separate and different. But this attitude only led to a schizoid political temperament, as Hartz also discerned. For while the South romanticized its own "feudal ethos" in order to rationalize the existence of slavery, and while it chose to ignore the Jeffersonian egalitarianism in the Declaration of Independence, it had, in the writings of John C. Calhoun and others, to return to the Jeffersonian Enlightenment and the doctrine of natural rights to justify its own right to nullification and secession, and to claim as its own the liberal idea of self-determination. 
  Thus even during the Civil War—so often viewed as a challenge to the idea of national consensus—the North and South argued over the correct interpretation of Lockean principles, rather than over the principles themselves. The North saw property as a reward for labor, and the South regarded property as the right to possess another's labor and perceived state sovereignty as the right to withdraw from a Union that had been based upon the consent of the governed.
