<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: BI>
<Author(s): Draelos, Pugliese>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 228>
<Wd Ct: 583>
<End Header>

Elastin and the skin

Elastin is found in the skin, liver, aorta, lungs, Achilles tendons and ligaments of the neck. In the skin it is only about 0.6% by dry weight, which is almost nothing compared to collagen, which makes up 72% of the dry weight of the skin. 2 It is remarkable that such tiny amounts of tissue can cause such joy or havoc. Elastin undergoes continuous degradation with replacement of new elastin, even though the turnover rate of elastin is slow. A certain number of diseases are associated with a more rapid degradation of elastin, and in studying these diseases, it was apparent that a proteolytic enzyme had to be the cause of this degradation. Proteolytic enzymes first break down proteins to peptides and then break them down even further to amino acids. Only those conditions that are genetic will be discussed so that you can be familiar with the names, although they are quite rare. Two aspects of elastin degradation that affect your clients most frequently— aging and sun damage— will be discussed in depth. Genetic diseases

Elastosis perforans serpiginosa. 

This is an example of a genetic disease associated with molecular defects of elastic fibers. It is a genetic defect in the cross-linking of collagen and elastin. Buschke-Ollendorf syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by small, yellowish papules that form on the skin and an associated bone disease. It is not known why these two conditions are associated, but some scientists feel it can relate to elastin producing fibroblasts in the bones. Cutis laxa. Easily recognized because the skin becomes pendulous and very stretchable, this is a genetic condition. It occasionally is seen in carnival sideshow performers billed as “rubber men.” Patients with this disease look quite old due to gravitational changes, even when they are young. One of the interesting aspects of this disease is broken or fragmented elastic fibers that also are seen in stretch marks.

Aging, the skin and elastin

In the 1980s, dermatologist Albert Kligman, MD, and scientist Robert Lavker turned their attention to the histological appearances of wrinkles. Their purpose was to determine if a wrinkle could be described in terms of classical histology, more accurately termed classical histopathology. 3 They were unable to detect a single defect beyond a deterioration of the elastic network. All of the papers written about wrinkle formation arrive at the same conclusion. For skin care specialists interested in treating the signs of aging skin, it means that one target must be elastin fibers. It’s necessary, however, to briefly take a look at the anatomy of skin and wrinkles. The skin is composed of the epidermis and dermis, and the dermis is divided into two major layers. The top layer is the papillary layer and the lower layer is known as the reticular layer. Both of these layers contain collagen and elastin, but the collagen mainly is in the lower layer of the dermis while the elastin mainly is in the upper layer of the dermis. Whatever the cause— be it sun or free radicals within the skin— the elastin undergoes degradation from the enzyme elastase. The specific action of elastase is to break down elastic fibers. In addition, new elastin is produced that is nonfunctional, called elastotic elastin. The result is a loss of retraction in the skin. As the skin is pulled by gravity, the elastin fibers stretch and there is no return, so that the skin droops and stays droopy. The feeling is one of a doughy consistency.
