<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: BI>
<Author(s): Waites, Higton, Morgan>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 75>
<Wd Ct: 560>
<End Header>

Microoorganisms are used extensively to provide a vast range of products and services (Table 4.1). They have proved to be particularly useful because of the ease of their mass cultivation, speed of growth, use of cheap substrates (which in many cases are wastes) and the diversity of potential products. Their ability to readily undergo genetic manipulation has also opened up almost limitless further possibilities for new products and services from the fermentation industries. 

Traditional fermentations were originally performed (and still are in some cases) by a mixture of wild microorganisms emanating from the raw materials or the local environment, e.g. some food and alcoholic beverage fermentations. Initial attempts to improve the microorganisms involved occurred little more than 120 years ago, when they were first isolated from these processes as pure cultures from which the most useful strains were then selected. Those fermentation processes developed during the first 80 years of the 20th century have mostly used monocultures. The specific microorganisms employed were often isolated from the natural environment, which involved the random screening of a large number of isolates. Alternatively, suitable microorganisms were acquired from culture collections (see p. 78). Most of these microorganisms, irrespective of their origins, were subsequently modified by conventional strain improvement strategies, using mutagenesis or breeding programmes, to improve their properties for industrial use. Several processes developed in the last 20 years have involved recombinant microorganisms and genetic engineering technology has increasingly been used to improve established industrial strains. 

In most cases, regulatory considerations are of major importance when choosing microorganisms for industrial use. Fermentation industries often prefer to use established GRAS (generally regarded as safe) microorganisms (Table 4.2), particularly for the manufacture of food products and ingredients. This is because requirements for process and product approval using a ‘new’ microorganism are more stringent and associated costs are much higher. Where pathogens and some genetically manipulated microorganisms (GMMs) are used as the producer organism, additional safety measures must be taken. Special containment facilities are employed and it may be possible to use modified (‘crippled’) strains that cannot exist outside the fermenter environment (see Chapter 8). 

Isolation of suitable microorganisms from the environment 

Strategies that are adopted for the isolation of a suitable industrial microorganism from the environment can be divided into two types, ‘shotgun’ and objective approaches. In the shotgun approach, samples of free living microorganisms, biofilms or other microbial communities are collected from animal and plant material, soil, sewage, water and waste streams, and particularly from unusual man-made and natural habitats. These isolates are then screened for desirable traits. The alternative is to take a more objective approach by sampling from specific sites where organisms with the desired characteristics are considered to be likely components of the natural microflora. For example, when attempting to isolate an organism that can degrade or detoxify a specific target compound, sites may be sampled that are known to be contaminated by this material. These environmental conditions may select for microorganisms able to metabolize this compound. 
Once the samples have been collected a major problem is deciding on the growth media and cultivation conditions that should be used to isolate the target microorganisms. An initial step is often to kill or repress the proliferation of common organisms and encourage the growth of rare ones. Enrichment cultures may then be performed in batch culture, or often more suitably in continuous systems. 
