<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: BI>
<Author(s): Heifman>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 75>
<Wd Ct: 546>
<End Header>

The sensory environment of fishes is quite different than what we experience. Vibrations such as sound may travel long distances under water, but certain wavelengths of light attenuate rapidly. Fishes are surrounded by molecules in solution, so chemoreception (taste and smell) can take place almost anywhere on their body that has appropriate receptors. And water’s conductive properties surround fishes with electric impulses, making electroreception not just a possibility, but a reality for many species. It should not be surprising, therefore, that more than 400 million years of natural selection have resulted in a remarkable array of sensory abilities and adaptations. In this chapter we will explore the fundamentals of fish sensory systems as well as some specific examples, recognizing that the full diversity of fish sensory capabilities is well beyond the reach of these pages. 

Sensory organs are basically accessories to the nervous system that act as transducers. They capture specific types of signals, such as light, sound, molecular shapes, or electricity, and convert them into changes in action potentials, which are then carried by sensory neurons to the brain where the information is interpreted. Sensory systems may show ontogenetic changes because larvae, juveniles, and adults must be prepared to deal with different sensory environments. We will consider the following categories of fish sensory systems: mechanoreception (lateral line, hearing), electroreception, vision, chemoreception (taste and smell), and magnetic reception. In addition, we consider the question of whether or not fishes detect pain (Box 6.1). Finally, we will explore how signals from various sensory organs are integrated to help fishes survive and thrive in their environments. 

Mechanoreception 

The sensory environment of fishes is quite different than what we experience. Vibrations such as sound may travel long distances under water, but certain wavelengths of light attenuate rapidly. Fishes are surrounded by molecules in solution, so chemoreception (taste and smell) can take place almost anywhere on their body that has appropriate receptors. And water’s conductive properties surround fishes with electric impulses, making electroreception not just a possibility, but a reality for many species. It should not be surprising, therefore, that more than 400 million years of natural selection have resulted in a remarkable array of sensory abilities and adaptations. In this chapter we will explore the fundamentals of fish sensory systems as well as some specific examples, recognizing that the full diversity of fish sensory capabilities is well beyond the reach of these pages. Sensory organs are basically accessories to the nervous system that act as transducers. They capture specific types of signals, such as light, sound, molecular shapes, or electricity, and convert them into changes in action potentials, which are then carried by sensory neurons to the brain where the information is interpreted. Sensory systems may show ontogenetic changes because larvae, juveniles, and adults must be prepared to deal with different sensory Water’s density makes it an excellent conductor of vibrations. It is not surprising, therefore, that aquatic organisms have come to rely heavily on detecting these signals in a variety of ways. These mechanisms evolved early in the long history of vertebrates, and have become highly modified and specialized in the fishes. 

Mechanoreception among fishes involves the detection of the movement of the water. Fishes have two major mechanosensory systems: the lateral line system and the inner ear. 
