<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: BI>
<Author(s): Gillman>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 45>
<Wd Ct: 552>
<End Header>

3.1 Probability distributions 

In a deterministic world everything would be predictable. If speciation rates were deterministic we would be able to predict exactly the number of species at time t + 1 given the numbers of species at time t and a knowledge of the underlying processes governing speciation. This notion of a deterministic and therefore predictable world is upset by two important phenomena. First, and most obviously, many environmental phenomena are not deterministic! Randomly occurring, or generally unpredictable, events make an important contribution to ecological and evolutionary processes. In these cases we use the term stochastic. The second issue is that, even when processes are deterministic, the results may appear to be random. Thus chaotic phenomena, generated by strictly deterministic processes, produce apparently random output (Chapter 5). 

Many unpredictable phenomena have a set of possible outcomes. In some cases there may be only two possibilities, such as whether or not it rains on a given day. Similarly, we may consider whether or not a species will go extinct in a given time period. Other phenomena will have more than two outcomes. The probability of a particular outcome can be determined based on considerations of different temporal or spatial scales. The probability that it rains tomorrow could be judged on how many days it has rained in the last month; for example, 28 out of 30 days. We might wish to contrast this probability (28/30) with that of equal probability (1/2) that it rains or does not. The much higher probability of rain during that month may indicate that we are in a wet season or simply an area of high rainfall. 

Let us assume that the probability that it rains on a given day is 0.75 based on past events over several years. This might suggest that we can predict the weather (!) but we cannot be certain whether it will rain on a given day. In fact, we have a probability of 0.75 that it rains on a given day and 0.25 that it does not rain. Assuming that rain today is not affected by rain yesterday – that is, that rain on a given day is independent of rain on another day (this is an important assumption and one we will modify later) – we can generate a binomial distribution of events as follows.

Over 2 days, the probability that it rains on both days is 0.75 0.75; the probability that it rains on one day is 0.75 × 0.25 (× 2 as it can happen in either order) and the probability that it does not rain on both days is 0.25 × 0.25. In each case the probabilities sum to 1 (day 1, 0.25 0.75 1; day 2, 0.0625 + 0.375 + 0.5625 = 1 and so on). The distribution of probabilities rapidly becomes complex as the number of days increases, even though we are only dealing with two events (rain or not). For this reason statisticians have devised shorthand algebra to summarize the probability distributions. In the case of the binomial distribution, let p equal the probability of one event and q equal the probability of the other (p + q = 1). If n is the number of days we can determine the probabilities of rain on zero up to n days by expansion of (p + q).
