<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: BI>
<Author(s): Montville, Matthews>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 5>
<Wd Ct: 558>
<End Header>

FOOD MICROBIOLOGY, PAST AND PRESENT 

From the dawn of civilization until about 10,000 years ago, humans were hunter-gatherers. Humans were lucky to have “enough.” There was neither surplus nor a settled place to store it. “Preservation” was not an issue. With the shift to agricultural societies, storage, spoilage, and preservation became important challenges. The first preservation methods were undoubtedly accidental. Sun-dried, salted, or frozen foods did not spoil. In the classic “turning lemons into lemonade” style, early humans learned that “spoiled” milk could be acceptable, or even desirable, if viewed as “fermented.” Fermenting food became an organized activity around 4000 B . C . E . (Table 1.1). Breweries and bakeries had sprung up long before the idea of yeast was conceived. 

Humans remained ignorant of microbes for thousands of years. In 1665, Robert Hooke published Micrographia, the first illustrated book on microscopy that detailed the structure of Mucor, a microscopic fungus. In 1676, Antony van Leeuwenhoek (Fig. 1.3) used a crude microscope (Fig. 1.4) of Hooke’s design to see small living things in pond water. Microbiology (Fig. 1.5) was born! 

Nonetheless, it took another 200 years to prove that microbes exist and cause fermentative processes. In the mid-1700s, Lazzaro Spallanzani showed that boiled meat placed in a sealed container did not “spoil.” Advocates of spontaneous generation, however, argued that air is needed for life and that the air was sealed out. It took another 100 years for Louis Pasteur’s elegant “swan-neck flask” experiment (see Box 25.1) to replicate Spallanzani’s experiment in a way that allowed access to air, but not microbes. Napoleon, needing to feed his troops as they traveled across Europe, offered a prize to anyone who could preserve food. Nicolas Appert (Fig. 1.6) won this prize when he discovered that foods would not spoil if they were heated in sealed containers, i.e., were canned. Thus, canning was invented without any knowledge of microbiology. Indeed, it was not until the 1900s that mathematical bases for canning processes were developed. 

Robert Koch was a giant of microbiology. In the late 1800s, he established criteria for proving that a bacterium caused a disease. To satisfy “Koch’s postulates,” one had to (i) isolate the suspect bacterium in pure culture from the diseased animal, (ii) expose a healthy animal to the bacterium and make it sick, and (iii) reisolate the bacterium from the newly infected animal. This approach was so brilliant that it is still used today to prove that a disease has a microbial origin. Microbiology remains based on the study of single bacterial species in pure culture. Unfortunately, most microbes cannot be cultured, and they exist in nature as community members, not in pure culture. Two other innovations from Koch’s laboratory are still with us. Julius Petri, an assistant in Koch’s laboratory, invented the petri dish as a minor modification of Koch’s plating method. Workers in the Koch laboratory were often frustrated by the gelatin used in the plating method. Gelatin would not solidify when the temperature was too warm and was dissolved by certain organisms (that produced enzymes that degrade gelatin). Walter Hesse, a physician who had joined the Koch lab to study infectious bacteria in the air, shared this frustration with his wife, Fanny. Frau Hesse had been using agar to thicken jams and jellies for years and suggested that they try agar in the laboratory.
