<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: BI>
<Author(s): Miller>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 247>
<Wd Ct: 555>
<End Header>

Seafloor habitats are termed benthic and the organisms living on the bottom are termed benthos. The terms apparently are versions of the Greek ‘‘bathos’’ (bauoB), meaning depth. Benthic habitats share characteristics with both pelagic and terrestrial ones. They are (more-or-less) solid substrates, like the land, but they are continuously submerged in seawater. Thus, the basic physiologic problems are the same as those for pelagic ocean life, but the two-dimensional aspect of a land habitat operates as well. Benthic habitats grade downward in a series: intertidal, subtidal, bathyal (continental slope depths), abyssal, and hadal (trenches). The solid earth has two principal surfaces, the continental shields above sea level, and mostly at the level of steppe or lowland rainforest ($ 300 m elevation), and the abyssal plains at depths of about 4500 m. This deep-sea zone occupies about 60% of world ocean area (Fig. 12.1). There are some rocky deep-sea sites, particularly at spreading centers, but most of the ocean is underlain by sediment-covered bottom 2000 to 5500 m below the surface productive layer. Because of this areal dominance, and because sediment is easiest to sample, we will focus on the benthos of deep-sea sediments. Many insights come from comparisons to the more accessible subtidal and bathyal depths, so data from them will be used as well. 

In shallow benthic sites there are often attached plants, such as the kelp forests of Nereocystis off California and Macrocystis off Oregon. However, those are in a very narrow zone next to the shore. The biota of the deep-sea floor depends upon food descending from above. At the sediment surface, food accumulates in and can be gathered from a narrow stratum. While only less than 1– 2% of surface production reaches abyssal bottoms, they still represent a moderately rich resource compared to the water column just above. 

Physical conditions are less variable at abyssal depths than in other large habitats. Temperatures are low, less than 3 8C, but never low enough to freeze salt water. Salinity is 33– 35 PSU, but varies even less within oceanic basins. Oxygen concentration is mostly near saturation, greater than 4mL L À1, although in places that oxygen-minimum layers impinge on continental slopes it can be much less. Darkness is continuous, and below about 1200 m even bioluminescence is minimal. Occasional photons excited by radioactive decays or interaction of passing cosmic rays with water convey no information and no useful energy. Hydrostatic pressure increases by about 1 atmosphere per 10 m depth, so at abyssal depths the pressure is 200 to 600 atmospheres. At any one site it is nearly invariant from a biological perspective. So far as is known, these conditions have been consistent since at least the end of the Wisconsin glaciation ($ 8000 YBP). 

We can predict, before we begin reviewing the observations, that variations among benthic habitats will depend upon: 1 substrate type – rock or sediment (and within sediment there will be habitat variation with particle size, which we characterize as gravel > sand > silt > clay); 2 depth; 3 food supply.

Rock supports assemblages of attached fauna. Until recently, with the advent of submersibles and remotely operated vehicles (ROVs), these have been very difficult to study. Sediments support both infauna, forms that nestle in or move through the substrate, and epifauna that slide or run about on the surface.
