<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: BI>
<Author(s): Wilson>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 18>
<Wd Ct: 541>
<End Header>

1.2.2 Physicochemical determinants 

A number of physicochemical factors affect the growth of microbes, but not all of these (e.g. atmospheric pressure, magnetic fields) have much relevance to the composition or growth of microbial communities inhabiting humans. This is because we ourselves are limited with respect to the type and range of environments that can be tolerated, and homeostatic mechanisms ensure a relatively constant environment at most of the sites colonized by microbes. These homeostatic mechanisms are augmented by factors such as clothing, housing, and air-conditioning, which help to protect against the more extreme environments to which humans may be exposed. However, despite the effectiveness of our homeostatic mechanisms, the conjunctiva and exposed regions of the skin will experience more dramatic fluctuations in temperature and humidity, for example, than sites such as the mucosal surfaces of the respiratory system and GIT. The most important physicochemical determinants affecting growth of the indigenous human microbiota are temperature, pH, Eh, atmospheric composition, water activity, salinity, and light. 

The temperature of most body sites in human beings is approximately 37°C. This limits the type of microbe that can colonize humans to those species that are mesophiles, i.e. they grow over the temperature range 25– 40°C and have an optimum growth temperature of approximately 37°C. The temperature of exposed areas of the skin (e.g. face and hands) tends to be a few degrees lower (approximately 33°C) than most other body sites and, although temperatures far lower than 37°C have been recorded at these sites in those living in polar and temperate climates, this does not appear to affect the types of organism colonizing such sites. The temperature of conjunctival surfaces may be even lower than those found on the skin, and there is some evidence that climatic temperature change affects the composition of the ocular microbiota, although concomitant humidity changes may also be partially responsible (section 3.4.2). 

In contrast to temperature, the pH of different body sites varies enormously and ranges from as low as pH 1– 2 to alkaline values (Fig. 1.13). This has a considerable effect on the types of organism that inhabit these sites. While very acidic pHs are found at a number of body sites (e.g. stomach, duodenum, caecum, and skin), alkaline environments are infrequently encountered and are generally present only in the tear film, the ileum, and in subgingival regions of the oral cavity. 

Depending on the range of pHs over which they can grow and their optimum pH for growth, microbes are broadly classified as being acidophiles, neutrophiles, or alkaliphiles. Acidophiles generally have an optimum pH for growth of less than 5.5, neutrophiles grow best over the pH range 5.4 to 8.0, and alkaliphiles have an optimum pH for growth of greater than 8.0. Most members of the indigenous microbiota of humans are neutrophiles. Some organisms can tolerate extremely acidic and alkaline pHs even though they may not be able to grow optimally at such pHs – such organisms are termed aciduric and alkaliduric, respectively. The term “acidogenic” refers to those organisms that produce acidic end products of metabolism, e.g. streptococci, lactobacilli, and propionibacteria. Although aciduric and acidophilic organisms, not surprisingly, are isolated from body sites with a low pH, not all organisms colonizing acidic sites belong to either of these categories. 
