<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: BI>
<Author(s): Sanders, Miller>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 10>
<Wd Ct: 588>
<End Header>

Biogeography is the study of the distribution of macroor microorganisms across various spatial scales, which can be local, continental, or global. The goal is to look for patterns that can be associated with certain abiotic factors and determine whether such factors are good predictors of biodiversity. Ecologists have been doing these sorts of analyses with plants and animals for ages, but its application to microbial communities is relatively new (Horner-Devine et al., 2004; Green and Bohannan, 2006). Moreover, ecological studies of microbes have become possible only due to the technological and methodological advances permitting cultivation-independent analyses of complex habitats such as soil. 

The biogeography of microbes: is everything everywhere? Martinus Beijerinck was a 19th-century microbiologist and botanist who made numerous important contributions during this formative historical period for the field of microbiology. For instance, he showed that tobacco mosaic disease was caused by a filterable agent smaller than a bacterium, he discovered the bacterial metabolic processes nitrogen fixation and sulfate reduction, and he invented the enrichment culture (Chung and Ferris, 1996). However, this esteemed scientist also is credited for the ecological principle ‘‘everything is everywhere, but the environment selects’’ (O’Malley, 2007). In other words, although the diversity of microbes is immense (e.g., 10 3 to ?10 4 species per g of soil), the composition and abundance of certain groups are influenced by environmental factors (HornerDevine et al., 2004). Noah Fierer and Robert Jackson, the authors of the paper discussed in this section, challenge this hypothesis by investigating which, if any, abiotic factors contribute to bacterial biodiversity at the continental scale (Fierer and Jackson, 2006). The identification of spatial patterns will provide clues about how biogeography contributes to the distribution of microbial diversity. 

Recall from Section 1.1 that water availability, oxygen levels, and nutrient status have been linked to microbial activities at the local scale. Of issue is whether these particular abiotic factors are reasonable predictors of biodiversity at the continental scale. Why do we care? Many stand to benefit from the knowledge gained about the distribution and abundance of microorganisms in the soil. For example, conservation biologists are interested in determining what role microbial communities play in facilitating the persistence of nonnative plant species, asking whether invasive plants alter the microbial community structure and thus allow these plant species to persist (Van der Putten et al., 2007). Ecologists are concerned about the long-term effects of land use on soil microbial communities with respect to ecosystem function (Fraterrigo et al., 2006). In particular, it has been shown that physical disruptions to soil such as agriculturally related tillage, forest clearing, and urban development actually change the abundance of particular microbial groups. This variation appeared to cause a decrease over time in the conversion of organic nitrogen (e.g., amino acids and urea) to mineral forms (e.g., nitrite, nitrate, and ammonia). Making efforts to maintain native biodiversity could potentially reduce the local effects of land use changes. 

The biogeography of plants and animals provides a contextual model for its application to microbes. Before the concept of microbial biogeography is explored, it would be helpful to understand plant and animal biogeography since far more is known about the patterns of plant and animal diversity on continental scales (Gaston, 2000). Specifically, ecologists have established which abiotic factors are good predictors of plant and animal diversity; these traditionally include water availability in the form of annual precipitation (millimeters), temperature (degrees Celsius), latitude (degrees north or south of the equator), and elevation (meters). Notably, no single factor is universally predictive across all ecosystems, scales, or organisms.
