<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Martin>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 36>
<Wd Ct: 564>
<End Header>

A truce resolving the potential war between father and son came unexpectedly through the intervention of Demaratus, a Greek from Corinth who enjoyed a relationship of guest-friendship with the Macedonian royal family. That status allowed Demaratus to speak frankly to the king. Since much of the venom in the quarrel between Alexander and his father centered on their relative status in the eyes of the Macedonian elite, it took an outsider to make the peace. Demeratus reproached Philip for the disunity he had created in his own house at this critical time, when he was trying to maintain an alliance among Greeks for a high-risk invasion of Persia. Philip followed the advice and reached out to his son. 

No source records the message that Philip sent to Alexander. Whatever words Philip used with his son, they tipped the balance of a difficult dilemma for Alexander: were his chances of survival, success, and honor better if he rebelled against his father with the Illyrians as allies, or if he returned to Pella and to the life-and-death competition for preeminence in the violent arena of the Macedonian court? Alexander returned home in late 337. It cannot have been a light-hearted reunion, and there is no sign that Alexander and his father ever again enjoyed a relationship of mutual esteem and confident, shared purpose. 

Another crisis arose almost immediately. In 338 the Persian king Artaxerxes III had died. Persian royal politics were just as savage and unforgiving as those in Macedonia, and the death of a king inevitably generated plots, betrayals, and murder among royal sons and cousins, until one emerged strong enough to hold power. At this time, Philip’s plans to attack Persia were no secret, and the Persians knew that a power struggle over the empty throne put them in no position to defend the empire against a Macedonian threat. 

Pixodarus, a local ruler of Caria, a Persian province in Anatolia (today Turkey) on the western edge of the empire, acted to try to protect his own interests. He sent a letter to Philip proposing to marry his daughter to Arrhidaeus, Philip’s oldest son and Alexander’s half-brother. Pixodarus’ offer of diplomacy through marriage was an attempt to buy life insurance, so to speak, in case the new Persian king proved weak and a large and deadly Macedonian army appeared on the borders of Pixodarus’ domain in Caria. Pixodarus, ignorant of Macedonian royalty, assumed that Arrhidaeus was the best pick as a potential husband for his daughter, since, as the oldest son, Arrhidaeus presumably enjoyed the highest status and best prospects for the future. This assumption was faulty, however. Arrhidaeus suffered from some kind of diminished mental capacity our sources are not specific  and he never played any major role in Macedonian politics, either under Philip or later under Alexander. 

The details of Pixodarus’ offer were based on an understandable mistake, but Olympias and her friends stirred up Alexander, telling him that this was another sign that Philip was trying to replace him as royal heir. Alexander took the bait. He wrote Pixodarus on his own, without telling Philip. He offered himself as husband for the Carian’s daughter, saying that Arrhidaeus, disability made him unsuitable. For Alexander to offer a political alliance with a foreign power, without his father’s knowledge, represented an enormous risk; Alexander must have felt himself to be living on a cliff edge.
