<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Keating>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 236>
<Wd Ct: 561>
<End Header>

Why It Was Not a Massacre 

The kind of history that has the most influence upon the life of the community and the course of events is the history that common men [and women] carry around in their heads. -Carl Becker 

On August 15, 2009, the Chicago Park District dedicated a new park at Calumet Avenue and Eighteenth Street, a block away from where The Fort Dearborn Massacre monument once stood and near the site of the 1812 battle. The Battle of Fort Dearborn Park is a small play lot that contains a historic marker commemorating the significance of this site in early Chicago history. Over several years of discussion, community residents banished the word ‘massacre’ from the story. John Low, a member of the Pokagan Band of Potawatomis and executive director of the Mitchell Museum of the American Indian, suggested that the park name reminds Chicagoans that Natives and non-Natives were not simply ‘victims, villains, or heroes’ but ‘people first, often presented with difficult circumstances and choices.’

Despite the serious consideration given to the renaming, some Chicagoans dismissed Low’s perspective as simply another round of ‘historical revisionism,’ vowing to continue to use ‘massacre’ in relation to the attack on August 15, 1812. They were willing to stand tall with the alarmist and propagandist writings of the fall of 1812 that sought to inflame American sentiment against Indians, rather than reconsider the event in light of new information and perspectives. 

This discussion over historical revisionism and the use of the word ‘massacre’ goes to the heart of what history is (or is not). History is not simply a record of everything that has happened in the past. There is no such record, and even if there were, historians could never access it all. No one will ever know everything about Chicago on August 12, 1812. We can only know what can be assembled from available accounts, but we continue to uncover more documentation and glean additional information from the available historical record. Our understanding of the past and its intricacies is ever evolving. 

Today historians know more about the attack on that August morning in 1812 than many of the participants and those who first wrote about it. When a Detroit judge used the word ‘massacre’ to describe these events in October 7, 1812, he did not know the fate of many of those under attack at Chicago. Nor did he know what the U.S. Army did in response to the Chicago battle. More information on the ‘massacre’ is available to us in 2012 than existed in 1812 or even in 1912, when Milo Quaife completed the last full-scale review of these years. In Chicago and the Old Northwest, Quaife described the event as a ‘massacre’ in his text but headed his chapter ‘The Battle and Defeat.’ Since 1912 Quaife and others have added to our store of records by uncovering materials from more survivors, including John Kinzie. In addition, a blossoming of Indian history and regional studies provides a richer context in which to consider Chicago in 1812. 

Reconsideration has been going on for decades. In 1943 Harry A. Musham, a Chicagoan who devoted his retirement decades to studying Fort Dearborn and seeking public memorialization of it, could no longer describe the 1812 attack as a ‘massacre.’He noted: ‘It was not a massacre as it was not an indiscriminate killing.’ 
