<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Thornton>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 8>
<Wd Ct: 597>
<End Header>

It is easy to forget in the age of motorized travel that before the middle of the nineteenth century, the easiest, fastest, and cheapest way to move cargo of any significant size and people in any numbers was by water. Only extraordinary effort with horses and draught animals could move goods faster, and then only at considerably more expense. This simple fact goes a long way to explaining why river and sea travel was so important, and why humans worked hard to master maritime and nautical technology. 

Given this fact, it may seem extraordinary that the Atlantic Basin was the last large body of water to be mastered for navigation. The vast Pacific was being crossed by Polynesians in increasingly more elaborate watercraft from the time of Christ, following remarkable breakthroughs in oceanic navigation and watercraft construction. The Indian Ocean was crisscrossed with trading boats long before the Common Era began, as the Periplus of the Erythrean Sea , a guide to navigation of the first century, shows. Ancient navigators voyaged into the Mediterranean even before historical records marked their journeys, and Europe’s northern seas saw ports and trade long before the Romans conquered Gaul. 

It was not as though the Atlantic Basin was without those who might sail on it. Roman ships had ventured out into the Atlantic in the early centuries AD, exploring the north coast of Africa and visiting the Canary Islands, the ‘Fortunate Isles’ of ancient geographers. Archaeologists confirm that even before Christ, people of the Orinoco Basin were building seaworthy craft and were beginning to move from the river into the Caribbean. 1 By the time European sailors visited its waters, there was substantial shipping there. Columbus saw a boat whose length he estimated at 96 palms, which carried, by his estimate, enough to have a superstructure, a ‘house on its decks. A quarter-century later, the first visitors to North America, such as Giovanni de Verrazano, noted quite a sophisticated maritime culture; one of the local boats that visited him was some twenty feet long, sailing outside the Chesapeake Bay in 1524. Native North Americans regularly traveled by water between modern-day New Jersey and the Chesapeake on boats powered by sails. 

European travelers to the Atlantic coast of Africa were regularly met by local watercraft. Early descriptions speak of craft that could hold up to a ton of cargo and dozens of sailors all along the coast. Alvise da Mosto, visiting the coast in 1455, thought the local watercraft were good ‘barche,’ and he met a fleet of seventeen of them at one point. 3 His contemporary, Diogo Gomes, saw 2 such craft carrying 38 men each; 4 slightly later sources mention as many as 100 fighting men in such craft, which were as long as the European ships, along the coast from Senegal to modern-day Sierra Leone; others might carry several head of cattle. 5 The early traveler Duarte Pacheco Pereira marveled at the Ijo canoes he met off the coast of modern day Nigeria, equal in size and capacity to those he and others met off the coast of Senegal or Sierra Leone. 

For all the elaboration of watercraft found throughout the coastal Atlantic, even those cultures that made regular voyages on open seas, like the Europeans or people of the Caribbean basin, it was not until the fifteenth century that the Atlantic became a regular channel of navigation. There were crossings before, and even perhaps on some scale, but they had not made the Atlantic the sort of highway that other large bodies of water had become centuries earlier. 
