<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Jackson, Saunders>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 172>
<Wd Ct: 565>
<End Header>

The Conservatives’ failure to engage with the national question left the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats as the champions of the Union, in the sense that most Scots and Welsh would understand it. By endorsing devolution, it was possible to adapt the Union in a way that would take account of national differences and compensate for what was seen as the “democratic deficit” in that Tory England was too powerful. This phenomenon was undoubtedly stronger in Scotland than Wales for a number of reasons. First, Scotland enjoyed greater territorial integrity, for there was no porous border area that witnessed widespread English immigration as in Wales. Nor was Scotland divided geographically by a linguistic tendency to vote Nationalist that was confined to a Celtic heartland. The language issue remained remarkably unpoliticised in Scotland. The border was also sealed intellectually in Scotland by the existence of its separate legal system. Second, there was a wider range of institutions, such as the Scottish TUC, the Scottish Church, independent media and various organisations that were distinctively Scottish. Third, government institutions had developed, particularly after 1954, that gave the appearance of a separate Scottish polity. Similar points can be made for Wales, but they were neither as historically grounded nor as well developed. So when the Conservatives were thrashed in 1987, it was widely assumed that a “national” dimension was at work. 

Socio-economic change and the decline of Conservatism in Scotland and Wales 

The decline of the Conservative Party in Scotland and Wales did not automatically condition support for devolution, nor is it necessarily the case that the two phenomena were related. First, the dramatic decline of Conservative fortunes in 1987 did not feature much debate surrounding political nationalism or devolution in either Scotland or Wales. 40 There was, however, a tendency among political commentators to apply the issues of devolution and small-‘n’ nationalism retrospectively to 1979, as a way of legitimising the claims made in the late 1980s. Second, it is commonly assumed that tactical voting came into play to specifically target the Tories. The evidence for this is slight and it may be nothing more than serendipity. 42 Third, in reconstructing the past, we tend to look to the memoirs and writings of the leading advocates of devolution and take at face value the connections asserted between anti-Conservatism and home rule. Finally, because the creation of a Scottish Parliament and a Welsh Assembly has come to be seen as the most significant development in the politics of Scotland and Wales in the last quarter of a century, there is a danger of seeing past events through this prism and relating all development towards this end. One consequence of this has been to downplay the role of economic and social turmoil in generating hostility to Thatcherism. In other words, class was critical. 

Both Scotland and Wales witnessed a period of de-industrialisation during the 1980s that was unparalleled before the 1990s. Coal, shipping, steel and the traditional heavy industry that characterised much of their economies went to the wall in quick succession. In both societies, unemployment levels returned to those of the 1930s. Youth unemployment reached about a quarter and was not just experienced by the working class. The spectre of unemployment persisted until the late 1980s, even when the worst of the recession was past, while employment was maintained by longer working hours and growing female unskilled work. 
