<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Kim>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 84>
<Wd Ct: 585>
<End Header>

Period of the Northern and Southern States 

After Sill a pushed Tang China off the Korean peninsula in 676, it asserted authority over the Korean peninsula south of the Taedong River Wonsan Bay line and thus unified Korea south of the peninsula’s narrow waist. The old domain of Koguryo above that line on the Korean peninsula and in Manchuria then came under the rule of Tang, which, to govern that vast territory, established the ‘Protectorate-General to Pacify the East.’ But Tang’s rule met with stiff resistance from those displaced from Koguryo. To placate them Tang invested Pojang, the last king of Koguryo, with a fiefdom, giving him the title ‘K ing of Chaoxian (Choson),’ and in 677 it appointed him governor of Liaodong. His descendants succeeded him in that position and gradually secured virtual autonomy for the region they governed. This ‘state,’ which remained in existence until the early ninth century, was often referred to by historians as ‘Lesser Koguryo.’ In 698 Tang was forced to abolish the Protectorate-General to Pacify the East. 

Meanwhile, in that same year in the vast plains of eastern Manchuria, the new state of Parhae was established by a former Koguryo general, Tae Cho-yong. Tang China, which had exerted great power when the dynasty first started to rule, began to wane by this time. Empress Wu (685-705), the one-time consort of Tang emperor Gaozong, was unable to pay much aftention to the affairs of Northeast Asia, as she was busy consolidating her own power through bloody struggles in which, on two occasions, she even removed her own sons from the imperial throne. Seizing upon this opportunity, Tae Cho-yong led a band of followers, from both Koguryo and Malgal, eastward to Dongmushan (near present-day Dunhua in Jilin province, China), where he proclaimed himself king of ‘Chin’ (literally, ‘eastern land,’ ‘dawn,’ or ‘morning,’ and interpreted as ‘state of sunrise’). He took the name K ing Ko (698-719). The name ‘Parhae,’ from the name of the sea surrounding the Liaodong and Shandong peninsulas, dates from 713 and was bestowed by Tang China, when the state of Parhae paid tribute to Tang as a formality. Parhae soon gained control of most of the former Koguryo territory. 

Chinese historians have claimed that the Parhae kingdom was historically part of China, arguing that Parhae was a state of the Malgal people rather than a successor kingdom of Koguryo. They have also maintained that, Parhae, like Koguryo, was one of China’s provincial governments for several reasons. First, the territory was named ‘Parhae’ by Tang. Second, its kings continued to pay tribute to Tang and remained invested in the kingship of the Chinese dynasty. Third, Parhae embraced Chinese culture, including the use of Chinese characters and Chinese writing.

But old Chinese historical records clearly indicate that Tae Cho-yong was from Koguryo. That Parhae maintained a system of tribute and investiture with the Tang dynasty was merely for diplomatic purposes. Further, Parhae’s use of Chinese characters and Chinese writing only reflects its willingness to accept more advanced Chinese culture. Parhae’s kings called themselves ‘emperor’ or ‘great king’ and declared the names of their own era. Finally, Parhae was a sovereign state independent of Chinese suzerainty or influence and styled itself as Koguryo’s successor state. The text of an official communication conveyed by a Parhae envoy to Japan in 727 emphasized that Parhae ‘has recovered the lost land of Koguryo and inherited the old traditions of Puyo.’ In its return message Japan referred to Parhae as the ‘state of Ko[gu]ryo.’ 
