<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Ferraro>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 210>
<Wd Ct: 582>
<End Header>

Meanwhile, little new residential building took place in the historic center. As a result, the new generations of workers employed in Venice commuted in from the suburbs, together with motoring tourists, who from 1933 were accommodated with a parking garage (designed by Eugenio Miozzi and built between 1931 and 1934) resembling a monumental city gate. The function of Venice thus changed once again, returning the city on the lagoon to insularity and to the destiny of becoming a museum site. There were some marine insurance agencies on the Zattere, but tourism was the primary source of income, with glassblowing, lace-making, manufacture of luxury textiles, and leatherwork its auxiliaries. 

Venice during the Fascist period was not totally void of new working-class districts, but unlike the days of the Republic, when nobles and commoners lived alongside one another in the same parishes, workers were placed on the fringes of the historic center, at Castello, Santa Croce, and Cannaregio. Moreover, the community of Santa Elena, built in 1928 adjacent to the public gardens, was far out on the outskirts. It was difficult for commuters to get to and from these densely populated neighborhoods on the margins. The vaporetti of the early twentieth century that had made gondoliers obsolete were no longer adequate. To them were added motorboats that circled the city, eroding the foundations of the edifces along the canals. To speed up travel from the train station and the car garage to San Marco, another waterway, the Rio Nuovo, was built, further damaging the city’s underside. The result of not building in the center increased the flow of commuters from the mainland, and historic Venice continued on its way to becoming a city of the elderly and visiting tourists. 

This was the era of totalitarianism in italy. Benito Mussolini and the Fascist party had taken power in Rome on October 28, 1922, and would direct the course of the country’s history for the next two decades. The period began with a program of domestic improvement, which for Venice included new building in addition to the roadway across the lagoon. Besides the new working-class districts in Venice, Fascism brought with it new public buildings between 1920 and 1940: the modernistic Heliotherapic Hospital at the Lido (1922-3); the fire station at Rio Ca Foscari (designed by Brenno del Giudice and built between 1932 and 1934); the passenger airport at the Lido, and new pavilions for the Biennale. The palazzo del Cinema on the Lido (designed by Luigi Quagliata and Angelo Scatttolin and built between 1936 and 1938) became the site of the international Film Festival, which began in 1932, and in the postwar period Venice’s gambling houses, on the Lido for summer and at palazzo Vendramin-Calergi in winter, attracted new sources of profit from Europe’s jet set. Mussolini used the expositions at the Biennale to promote Fascist propaganda and established a string of nationalistic festivals in Venice in music (1930), film (1932), and theater (1934). 

World War II brought hardship and disaster to Venice. Even though the city itself was not bombed out of respect for its monumental importance, it was heavily impacted in the Jewish quarter, first by the national racial laws of 1938, which restricted employment, teaching, learning, and performance for Jews, and then in 1943 when deportation began. Many Jews lost their lives in the Holocaust, and they are remembered and honored in Arbit Blatas Holocaust memorials (Fig. 45 ). Others, fortunately, managed to go underground, hidden by Venetians and other sympathetic Italians. 
