<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Confer>
<Source: ebrary>
<Pages: 204>
<Wd Ct: 549>
<End Header>

The surrender of Apache leader Geronimo in 1886 is often regarded as the end of the Indian Wars. The United States could take pride in the idea that they had finally made 'peace on the plains' come true. All meaningful native armed resistance was at an end. Or was it? Certainly, Geronimo remained behind bars; Crazy Horse, Captain Jack, John Ross, Little Crow, and so many other Indian leaders were dead. Other former adversaries languished on reservations with the remnants of their people. After more than a century of warfare against American Indians, the army could finally turn its attention and resources elsewhere. Except there was one more chapter to play out in this long dramatic struggle. 

Hundreds of thousands of Indians had become virtual prisoners by 1890. Some like Geronimo’s band, were actually behind bars, while most others remained on reservations. A few reservations coincided with tribal homelands but many people had been relocated away from their birthplaces, sacred areas, and hunting grounds. The U.S. government had given little value to natives’ connection to place and had mostly relegated reservations to the most undesirable land where the occupants would be the least trouble. The reservation lands were usually isolated and desolate. Almost none would support the government’s idea of farming, nor would warriors condescend to do women’s work, so hunger, boredom, and despair stalked the residents. The Bureau of Indian Affairs had to provide supplies to their unwilling charges, and the process of purchasing and delivering the goods was one of the most fraudulent and corrupt in U.S. history. The system for selecting Indian agents to supervise the reservations was equally flawed, so unqualified, unsympathetic, and sometimes pathological men had absolute power over the people. 

Since many Indian agents joined the service to get rich, they could devise ways to earn profits that always came at the Indians’ expense. This system of abuse created resentment and anger. Many agents believed the only way to contain that hostility was through repressive measures that afforded no power to the residents. Warriors were deprived of weapons, ponies, and authority. Every opportunity was taken to humiliate former leaders and make them aware of their now subservient status. Some agents disregarded the worth of their Indian charges while others feared these alien people so recently defeated. Either way, the atmosphere on most reservations was very tense and only a small provocation would create a storm. 

One of the hardest fought sections of the Indian Wars had been the northern plains. Fourteen years after the spectacular victory at Little Big Horn everyone still remembered it. Whites had elevated Custer to heroic status and still thought of revenging his noble death. Lakota warriors remembered their glory days and chafed at their total loss of power. Many friends and relatives had died for the cause of freedom and it now seemed in vain. Conditions on the Lakota reservations were depressing and everyone longed for their previous life.

The Standing Rock Lakota Agency had one thing that most reservations did not. It had a surviving great leader - Sitting Bull. He was the last resister of the government sweep of the Plains Tribes onto reservations. Sitting Bull had led his people to Canada in 1877 rather than surrender with his contemporaries Crazy Horse, Dull Knife, and Little Wolf. 

