<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Schroeder>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 162>
<Wd Ct: 577>
<End Header>

Simply invoking apartheid calls to mind specific memories for Tanzanians who belong to a certain age cohort. For the better part of three decades beginning in the early 1960s, they were deeply engaged in the southern African liberation struggles. Under the leadership of Julius Nyerere, they gave sanctuary to refugees fleeing war zones, provided safe haven for guerrilla armies, and hosted innumerable diplomatic meetings and conferences. Successful pursuit of these goals required considerable sacrifice, and they put their bodies on the line through military and national service. Nyerere’s fierce and principled rejection of aid from countries supporting the whiterun regimes in southern Africa meant that they were also forced at times to defer their aspirations for economic development to the liberation cause. This is simply what it meant to be a Tanzanian: looking back, this group still feels a deep sense of national pride. 

Life under Nyerere’s socialist regime is not universally remembered with fondness, however. For Tanzania’s neoliberal economic reformers, the ujamaa period is remembered less for its embrace of ‘family-hood’ self-reliance, and political virtue, and more as a time when economic activities were subjected to heavy-handed state control. These Tanzanians remember forced relocations and having their personal assets seized by the government; they recall the extended period of painful privation in the 1970s and 1980s when Tanzania was effectively ostracized by the west due to its adoption of socialist economic principles. The legacy of the period in their view is one of national failure and unrealized dreams. It would be best if it could be forgotten altogether in the hopes of producing a more economically productive future. 

South Africa enters this fundamental battle over Tanzania’s past, present, and future in two very different guises: as the remnant/representative of the apartheid system and as a font of investment capital and putative partner in the pursuit of new economic agendas. Which South Africa gets featured in the debate surrounding its presence in Tanzania depends in part on which view of history Tanzanians adopt. Those who actively ‘remember,’ that is, choose to highlight, South Africa’s apartheid past, naturally tend to view its contemporary presence in a highly negative light. They express an enduring antipathy against South African whites that manifests itself in xenophobia and racial animosity. For them, certain associations automatically lock into place whenever South Africa is mentioned: ‘kaburu is kaburu’; white South Africans are racist imperialists.The expectation of South African wrongdoing and presumption of guilt are omnipresent. 

In a less reactionary vein, the refusal to let the legacy of the anti-apartheid struggle die has simultaneously helped keep certain progressive moral precepts alive within the public sphere in Tanzania. Even in the absence of Nyerere (and perhaps because of his absence), many Tanzanians feel an acute obligation to uphold the norms and principles he embodied. They are watchful and vigilant: never again, they vow, will social relations like those practiced under apartheid be reproduced on African soil, least of all in Tanzania.3 Mwalimu’s saintly, abstemious nature is frequently invoked to help discipline contemporary politicians who would otherwise seek to enrich themselves through the power of public offce. Critics’ insistence on ‘remembering from below’ (Pitcher 2006) thus represents an effort to shape the moral context within which South African investors and their counterparts in the Tanzanian government must operate. This remembering shifts the burden of proof onto investors’ shoulders: it is incumbent upon the South Africans themselves to demonstrate that they no longer condone apartheid attitudes and practices.
