<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Tolan, Laurens, Veinstein>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 388>
<Wd Ct: 584>
<End Header>

The Muslim World in World War II 

The French and British sought to draw Turkey into their camp by providing it with major benefits. France completely ceded the sanjak of Alexandretta, part of its mandate in the Levant, leading to lasting resentment among the Syrians. The German-Soviet Nonaggression Pact changed the situation. Moscow called on the Ankara regime to remain neutral. It complied, even after the German invasion of the Soviet Union. In 1943&#8211; 1944, the English-speaking countries tried to persuade Turkey to join the war on their side, but Ankara quietly refused, using as a pretext the weakness of its army, which lacked modern materiel, and the geographical vulnerability of its territory. (The Axis powers controlled all of Greece, the Balkans, and the islands in the Aegean Sea.) 

Turkey was the chief Muslim country to be spared by the new war that had begun in Europe. the populations of the French and British colonial empires were not consulted when the European countries joined the war in September 1939. The Indian nationalists protested the decision, which called into question the dyarchy of the previous years. With the Japanese invasion of 1942, military operations reached the borders of India. The Congress Party actively opposed the war and was subjected to harsh repression. The Indian Muslims, by contrast, were patently ‘loyal.’ In a context where the British were compelled to draw on India’s resources to the maximum extent, and to promise the status of Dominion or even complete independence after the war, the Muslims obtained a true veto right over the future. In those terrible years, the idea developed of constituting a ‘Pakistan,’ a ‘Muslim nation’ uniting northern India into a federation with rather loose ties to the rest of the subcontinent. 

The war in North Africa began in June 1940. The French possessions fell under the provisions of the Armistice agreement, later constituting, under Maxime Weygand’s command, the sole instance of unified management of the Maghreb. In 1943, the ‘Western Desert,’ covering Libya and Egypt, became one of the main battlefields. For a year, the British Empire fought the Axis Powers with almost absurdly inadequate means, but also with unflagging resolve. The conquest of the Balkans, then of Crete, by the German forces in spring 1941 brought the threat dangerously close. The Arab nationalists in Iraq staged a coup d’etat and made contact with the Germans. The British counterattack was swift. With rough-and-ready forces, they reoccupied Iraq in May 1941. Because Vichy France had authorized the Germans to use the Levantine airports to bring aid to the Iraqis, the British imperial troops, while they were at it, penetrated the French Mandate, with the cooperation of the Free French Forces and a contingent of Zionists. That mini-war, which on the French side took on the aspect of a civil war, also created the oddity of Arab nationalists fighting on Vichy’s side. In mid-July, the Vichy forces obtained an armistice that allowed them to return to metropolitan France on a voluntary basis. 

To calm tensions, on May 29, 1941, Anthony Eden, British secretary of state for foreign affairs, made a declaration expressing his country’s sympathy for the cause of Arab unity, without mentioning Zionism. On June 8, 1941, the French general Georges Catroux announced, in General de Gaulle’s name, the principle of independence for Syria and Lebanon, based on treaties to be concluded. The German invasion of the Soviet Union changed the strategic game. The Iran of Reza Shah seemed to have moved too close to Germany. 
