<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Galinsky>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 105>
<Wd Ct: 593>
<End Header>

The Augustan period was a time of outstanding creativity. The recuper- ation of peace and stability certainly was conducive - we may compare the creative burst of fifth-century Athens after the trauma of defeat and destruction had been banished; for good reasons, Augustan Rome looked back to the Athens of Pericles, its architecture and art in particular. But there was more. A major element in the dynamic of Augustan culture - besides, of course, the ideas, ideals, and values Augustan projected - was the characteristics of Augustus’ style of governing. They were not simply transferred to the arts, let alone mandated by him from the top down. Instead, and as can be readily imagined, what he did and the way he reshaped things engaged the imagination of his contemporaries and stimulated many responses. Parallels, then, are evident. They do not comprise the entire, rich spectrum of the arts under Augustus, but I will foreground them in this book, which centers on Augustus and his impact. 

"Augustan" Characteristics: Overview and Some Examples

 Augustus’ evolutionary principate, as we have seen, was marked by experimentation and innovation. There was a framework of guiding principles, but their execution was undoctrinaire: if one road did not work, there would be another (and in the end they all would lead to Rome and Augustus). The past was invoked but at the same time recast; diverse tra- ditions were melded. One result was that most Augustan phenomena are, by design, many-sided; a representative sample is the varied meanings of libertas and para-constitutional terms such as auctoritas , the range of associations evoked in the first sentence of the Res Gestae , the purposes of the  moral legislation, and the very name  Augustus. They all have multiple dimensions, are rich in associations, and therefore elicited involvement and response. When we look at Augustan poetry, art, and architecture, the same qualities stand out. A paradigm is an icon of Augustan literature, Vergil’s Aeneid. It was a bold experiment to modernize Homeric epics - the Iliad and the Odyssey had been composed some 700 years earlier - and adapt them to Roman values. There had been nothing like this for centuries. Vergil’s contemporary Propertius, who was a very different kind of poet, said this much (2.34.65): Move over Greek and Roman writers: something greater - and I can’t quite define it - than the Iliad is born. While paying his respects to that tradition, Vergil changed it thoroughly -in style, substance, and the use of myth. The innovations begin at the very beginning (see Box 6.1): Vergil speaks in the first person - arms and the man I sing - which Homer never did. And instead of invoking the Muse right away, he waits for several verses and then introduces a key theme from Greek tragedy: here is a decent man having to endure the injustice of a god. Further, instead of asking the Muse to sing or speak to him, the Roman poet calls on her to bring to remembrance (memora) the story of Aeneas. Reflecting its defining role in Roman culture, memory is essential to the Aeneid; the epic is a poetic (re)construction of Roman cultural memory. Another of its many innovations is, in fact, Juno’s relentless persecutorial hatred of Aeneas. It is not found anywhere in the previous tradition. And there is always more than one dimension: Vergil’s most extensive ancient commentator, Servius (fourth century AD), observed that the very first verb in the Aeneid, I sing, can have at least three meanings: to praise, prophesy, and sing. 
