<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Kingston>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 120>
<Wd Ct: 578>
<End Header>

Unarmed? 

Japan’s Self-Defense Forces (SDF) were first established towards the end of the US Occupation, modestly beginning as a National Police Reserve of 75,000 lightly armed infantry in 1950 during the Korean War, and have since grown into a formidable force. In this all-volunteer military, there is a total of nearly 240,000 personnel with 148,000 in the Ground Self-Defense Force (GSDF), 45,000 in the Maritime Self-Defense Force (MSDF), and 46,000 in the Air Self-Defense Force (ASDF). There are an additional 58,000 reserves. Recruitment and retention are difficult given better paying options elsewhere and tough working conditions, but tsunami rescue and relief operations in 2011 boosted the SFD’s image. 

There is a widespread misperception that Japan lacks a military or has only a token defense force. In fact, Japan has a larger army than the UK or France, the fifth largest navy in the world, and one of the most advanced air force capabilities in Asia. It lacks long-distance missile and aerial refueling capabilities, and amphibious units, but it has advanced Aegis destroyers, sophisticated anti-submarine helicopters, helicopter carriers, and spy satellites, and is participating in a US-led ballistic missile defense system. It is also embarking on a significant expansion of its submarine fleet and has ordered 42 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters from Lockheed Martin worth US$7 billion to upgrade its air force. The F-35 has stealth capabilities that enable it to penetrate enemy air defenses, stretching already flexible definitions of what counts as defensive; the government has long maintained that its armed forces do not violate the Constitution because weapons systems are solely for defensive purposes. 

The defense budget is nearly US$50 billion, or approximately 1 percent of GDP, putting it in the top seven worldwide. The government also provides support for US forces stationed in Japan amounting to more than US$2 billion a year. Limiting the defense budget to no more than 1 percent of GDP is symbolically important, signifying that Japan is not aspiring to be a military power, but there is a sleight of hand involved to maintain spending below this magic threshold. If Japanese defense spending is tallied according to NATO accounting standards, it has long exceeded the 1 percent barrier. To get a sense of the delicacy of the military’s standing in Japan, it was not until 2007 that the Defense Agency became a full-fledged ministry. Political controversy and deep-rooted pacifist sentiments confront attempts at enhancing the SDF’s capabilities or budget. It has an exclusively defense-oriented policy and only defensive weapons capabilities, although in 2009 a government advisory panel recommended scrapping such constraints. Civilian control is strictly observed and it was not until 1992 when the Diet approved the Peace Keeping Operations (PKO) legislation that the SDF was permitted to operate overseas under extremely strict rules of engagement. It remains on a tight leash as enabling legislation is subject to periodic review and renewal. 

Certainly Japan is a significant regional military power and, since its first overseas dispatch of troops in Cambodia in 1992-3 under UN auspices, it has taken on further PKO missions in Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. The first overseas deployment not under UN authorization was to Iraq in 2004, as Japan joined the ‘coalition of the willing’ under pressure from the US. This deployment was extremely unpopular with the Japanese public, but was regarded as an unavoidable quid pro quo for US protection from North Korea in the context of its repeated missile tests and nuclear weapons development program. 
