<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Lehoucq>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 86>
<Wd Ct: 523>
<End Header>

Intensive bargaining under the auspices of the United Nations gradually convinced both sides to negotiate a transition to democracy. Although the military stalemate and the end of the cold war prompted most to become interested in settling their differences, little consensus existed on a host of issues. The FMLN’s long-term demands that peace required addressing the socioeconomic inequities of El Salvador terrified the right. ARENA and the military’s demand that the guerrillas demobilize before talks could begin had long stalled peace negotiations. At first, both sides agreed on procedures to guide their talks. They then shifted to identifying a timetable for considering the underlying disputes and the steps to implement agreements. In his detailed reconstruction of the peace negotiations, Salvador Samayoa (2002), an FMLN negotiator, credits the UN with playing a vital role. It not only facilitated the dialogue and proposed solutions to protect each side’s core interests, but also became the guarantor of the peace process. The UN acted more like an impartial arbiter than a coercive, third-party enforcer of its decisions (Peceny and Stanley, 2001). Deploying hundreds of observers in the country to monitor compliance with the agreement, it resolved the FMLN’s long-standing objection to the government’s demand that it unilaterally disarm. After months of negotiations, the insurgents dropped their demand to become part of a transitional government because the Cristiani’s government agreed to empower the UN Observer Mission for El Salvador (ONUSAL) to verify that the military stayed in its barracks and human rights were respected. It was a temporary encroachment on national sovereignty that met the FMLN’s demands the government could accept, and one that set the agenda for subsequent peace settlements across the globe. 

The FMLN and the government of El Salvador signed a peace agreement on January 16, 1992. If the Salvadoran people were the beneficiaries of the accord, the military was the biggest loser. Although the FMLN lost its 12,000-person army, they gained the legal right to organize a political party and field candidates in the 1994 elections. Although ARENA and the right were forced to respect the armed left’s right to use democratic rights, it gained the FMLN’s respect of private property and a market economy. The military was forced to halve its size and dismantle several police agencies and the rural National Guard. The agreement called for establishing a new, professional National Civilian Police outside of the Ministry of Defense and a new State Intelligence Office reporting to the president and the assembly (Call, 2002). 

Regime Liberalization in Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama 

Regime liberalization in Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama did not require peace negotiations with the left. By the mid-1980s, the military had routed the armed left in Guatemala, although guerrillas remained active in certain parts of the country and in international forums (Torres-Rivas, 1998). There were no guerrillas in Honduras and Panama. Analyzing these experiences demonstrates why civil war is the factor that best explains why transitions were different in Guatemala and Honduras from those in El Salvador and Nicaragua (as well as Costa Rica and Panama) and raises the question of why the military decides to extricate itself from the political arena.
