<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Crothers>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 182>
<Wd Ct: 589>
<End Header>

The American Argument 

Unsurprisingly, the United States has been at the forefront of efforts to reduce barriers to the trade in cultural products since the beginning of the era of contemporary globalization in the 1940s. The U.S. position has been and remains that popular culture products are no different from any other commodity and so no special rules or exemptions ought to govern cultural product trading worldwide. In part, this position is grounded on simple economic interests. As has been clear throughout this book, the United States holds a unique, globally dominant position in trade in popular culture. This does not mean that all popular culture produced and enjoyed around the world is American; rather, it means that in global pop culture matters, the United States is the nation most likely to benefit from free or relatively free trade. Its products already have a worldwide audience, and its makers have various competitive advantages in producing popular culture that make it likely that American popular culture would succeed in global trade. Moreover, the corporations that shape American popular culture are likely to be able to use their power and influence and wealth to compete against foreign producers, perhaps even purchasing their rivals or driving them out of business. Finally, while much of the rest of the world consumes American popular culture, the reverse is much less true: Americans watch few foreign movies or television programs and do not listen to significant amounts of foreign-produced music. This means that even as American producers might out-compete global popular culture producers in their home countries, those foreign producers are unlikely to out-compete American makers in the United States. This ensures a regular and profitable stream of income for U.S. producers that foreign producers lack. On purely economic grounds, then, free trade in culture makes sense to American policymakers and business leaders. 

Yet the economic explanation is not the whole of the reason Americans advocate free trade in culture. U.S. policymakers and citizens alike tend to believe that free trade is a cultural necessity. Free trade combines cultural values like individualism, capitalism, optimism, and entrepreneurialism in ways that reinforce American popular support for things like democracy, freedom, and human rights. As was discussed in chapter 1, Americans might not always live up to the commitments their belief in free trade suggests they ought, but the underlying cultural norms are there nonetheless. Free trade is generally seen to be a component of the notion of freedom as such. Limits on trade in culture, for those who believe in such linkages, can feel like limits on freedom itself. For many American advocates of free trade, then, open trade in cultural products is a passionately held cultural belief, not only an economically advantageous one. 

American trade negotiators and business leaders have adopted both economic and cultural explanations of their advocacy of free trade in culture. Speaking of efforts to liberalize the trade in movies in the late 1980s and early 1990s, for example, Peter Morici, who served as director of the U.S. International Trade Commission during the period, noted: "When we’re talking about cinema, I think it’s largely a commercial issue and not a cultural issue. Globally there’s a preference for what Hollywood puts out. We have a very competitive industry, and that is certainly evidenced by the amount of film we sell worldwide." Similarly, a spokesman for the California Trade and Commerce Agency, Mike Marando, insisted: "Making movies is a market-driven product. We don’t see it as cultural imperialism. We see it as a marketplace issue."
