<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Ismael, Ismael>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 1>
<Wd Ct: 581>
<End Header>

The Middle East as an area of study 

Defining the Middle East is problematic. Although it is distinguishable from Europe chiefly by religion, and from the Far East by culture, the Middle East, located roughly between southwest Asia and the eastern Mediterranean, has no tangible geographic periphery. Historically, its meaning has been determined by political rather than geographic factors and therefore has changed in correspondence to the growth of Western interest and involvement in the area. Indeed, the term ‘Middle East’ originates with Alfred Taylor Mahan (1840-1914), an American naval strategist, who coined it in 1902, and advised Britain on the importance of securing and maintaining the Gulf area en route to India. The term gained wide circulation during the Second World War when the Middle East Supply Center was established by the US and UK. However, the term did not initially have any definite geographical boundary; for Mahan, it was the area between the Near East (Mesopotamia and the Nile Valley) and the Far East (China and Japan), and served as a flexible strategic concept reflecting the early twentieth-century geopolitical struggle between Britain and Russia. In other words, the Middle East was invented as a formulation of British security discourse, and later during the Cold War era the term became integral to Anglo-American security terminology. Nevertheless, as a modern conceptual and geographic unit, the Middle East is commonly delineated as: the Fertile Crescent, the Arabian Peninsula, the Nile Valley of Egypt and the Sudan, and on the margins the Northern Belt of Turkey and Iran, on one end, and the Arab Maghrib states of North Africa, on the other. 

The politics of the Middle East vary in their particulars, state to state, though the region can be studied as a unit on the basis of shared thematic traits. First, the majority of Middle East states &#8211; minus Israel, Turkey and Iran share an Arabo-Islamic heritage that defines cultural norms and colors the social environment. Indeed, these cultural forms have proven to be the most vital in terms of political and social mobilization, with first pan-Arabism and later Islamism forming powerful ideologies within the region. Second, all of the states of the Middle East except Israel share the burdens of post-colonialism; and, in varying forms, continue to struggle with the exigencies of imperialism and neo-imperialism. In this vein, modern state-building in the Middle East has been an attempt to elucidate national programs vis-a-vis the pressures of successive great powers, now embodied in the United States. In the ashes of the repressive infrastructure created by the former colonial regimes, the Middle East region has sustained with little exception patterns of oppressive rule. 

The Middle East, as identified in the preceding definition, is a critical area of academic study, whose significance ranges from historic to religious/legendary to geostrategic. In the historic frame, the Fertile Crescent (more precisely, modern Iraq) is a site of agricultural revolution and human settlement and later the world’s first cities perhaps as early as 10,000 BCE . The epic tale of Gilgamesh, the first known work of literature, similarly emerged in ancient Iraq. Likewise, the Fertile Crescent is the site of the world’s earliest preserved legal codes, including the Laws of Eshunna, Mosaic Law and the Hammurabi Code. Finally, the Middle East region gave birth to monotheism as a coherent system of theology; it was the birthplace and remains the spiritual center of the world’s core monotheist religions Judaism, Christianity, and Islam which today comprise over three billion believers. 
