<Macro-register: AW>
<Register: TB>
<Topic/Discipline: History>
<Author(s): Payne>
<Source: myilibrary>
<Pages: 104>
<Wd Ct: 588>
<End Header>

Terror 

To understand the savage repressions that took place in Spain, the character of the revolutionary civil wars of the first half of the twentieth century must be kept in mind. These were conflicts of the transition to “classical modernity” a process of massive cultural and social transformation that in some countries generated unprecedented tensions and hatreds. The only direct precursors would be found in the French Revolution and in the Paris Commune of 1871. Murderous mass repressions, first using the word ‘terror’ were a major feature of those earlier conflicts, and then reappeared in all the revolutionary civil wars of the first half of the twentieth century, first in Finland, then immediately afterward in Russia and elsewhere. Later, during the 1940 s, they would reappear in the civil wars in Yugoslavia and Greece. 

The bloodlust in revolutionary civil wars stems from the apocalyptic nature of such contests, the attempt on each side to create a new society and cultural order, not merely a different political system, totally purged of antagonistic elements. In these conflicts the enemy is perceived not as an ordinary political rival, but as a kind of metaphysical incarnation of evil that must be eradicated before it infects, or imposes the same terror on, one’s own side. A revolutionary civil war is not an ordinary political contest, but a conflict of ultimates about society, religion, and culture, perceived to demand a total and uncompromising solution. 

During the war, both sides widely publicized (and in fact greatly exaggerated) the atrocities of their opponents, using the most inflated statistics, sometimes claiming up to half a million executions by the other side, in either case an exaggeration of between 600 percent and 800 percent. Subsequent studies would indicate a total of somewhat more than 120,000 executions by both sides combined during the war, slightly less than 0.5 percent of the total population, a horrifically high figure. This is proportionately greater than the equivalent figures for the civil war in Russia, though exceeded by the proportionate statistics for Finland, where a three-month civil war and its aftermath produced more than 20,000 victims of repression, a figure amounting to nearly 0.75 percent of the small Finnish population. If one adds to the Spanish total at least 28,000 executions carried out by the Franco regime during the three years following the end of the war, the proportions narrow, all the more so because all the Spanish fatalities refer to direct executions. 

Mass executions began almost immediately in the Spanish war, even sooner than in Russia, where organized mass killings started only in 1918, when the Bolsheviks officially instituted the Red Terror. The immediacy of large-scale executions in Spain was induced by several factors, the first two of a general nature, the third specific to the Spanish case. The conflict in Spain was the last revolutionary civil war of the generation that followed World War I, feeding on the propaganda, fears, and hatreds generated by its predecessors. Associated with this was the fact that the 1930s were a time of growing tension in which the earlier example of Bolshevism was followed by the rise of fascism, a deadly combination that evoked increasingly widespread fear and hatred. More specific to Spain was the run-up to the revolution, with increasing political violence since 1931 producing approximately 2,500 deaths during the intervening years. Even the Russian revolution of 1917 did not have this kind of violent prelude, which was without precedent. The revolutionary organizations fomented hatred, violence, and, in one of their favorite terms, ‘extermination’.
