Things you should know today: 2/28/19
By
Dolli Player
-
February 28, 2019
84
Trump accepts Kim ‘word’ he had no role in Warmbier death
President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un take a walk at the Sofitel Legend Metropole Hanoi hotel, Thursday, Feb. 28, 2019, in Hanoi. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci)
The death of Otto Warmbier has been a rallying subject for activists around the globe in relation to the human rights atrocities allegedly committed in North Korea. At the most recent summit Trump attended with Kim Jong Un, the president lowered his stance on the tragic Warmbier death and accepted the word of the North Korean leader when he said he had no part in it.
Cohen returns to Capitol Hill after slamming Trump as a liar
Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s former personal lawyer, listens as he finishes a day of testimony to the House Oversight and Reform Committee, on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Feb. 27, 2019. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
Donald Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen returned to Capitol Hill for closed-door questioning, after publicly calling Trump a racist, a con man and revealing that Trump asked him to conceal extramarital relationships. Trump and his supporters are calling Cohen a liar, but Cohen insists all the information he is relaying is accurate and correct.
Northern California river floods 2,000 buildings
A woman with a dog sails a kayak on a flooded street in Guerneville, north of San Francisco on Wednesday, Feb. 27, 2019. (Kent Porter/The Press Democrat via AP)
The Russian River in Sonoma County reached the highest levels it had in 25 years after heavy rainfall hit California off the back of storms dropping large amounts of snow and rain on the west. Locals are abandoning their cars because of un-drivable conditions, and the waters aren’t expected to recede until late Thursday night.
Viral content of the day
Marvel released the trailer for upcoming film “Dark Phoenix” set to be released June 7, 2019. The film focuses on the story of a super-charged “X-Men” named Jean played by Sophie Turner.