https://ham.stackexchange.com/questions/13323/what-is-homebrew


What is homebrew?


            Ask Question
        








2








$\begingroup$

My question is the title itself: what is homebrew (or home brewing)? And how do homebrews differ from ordinary ham radios?



diy jargon





share|improve this question




edited 6 hours ago





Kevin Reid AG6YO♦

16.7k33272


 



        asked 8 hours ago





SumithranSumithran

1178





 New contributor




Sumithran is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.            





$\endgroup$







add a comment | 


 






                                1 Answer
                            1




            active

            oldest

            votes










7





$\begingroup$

Homebrew is (as the name suggests) when you make your equipment yourself, as opposed to buying it.
An amateur setup consists of many components - the largest and most complicated of which are a radio transceiver (or separate receiver and transmitter), and the antenna. A power supply is also needed, but these are relatively inexpensive compared to the cost of other components.
Many people use a homebrew antenna, as it’s relatively straightforward to make a simple dipole and all it really costs is some wire and a balun. However, building a transceiver is a much more daunting task, unless you’re happy to stick with a single band and QRP.
Some people became radio amateurs literally because they wanted the challenge of building large complex electronics projects that they could maintain and improve, while using the equipment on a daily basis. However, for us mere mortals it is beyond most people’s ability without a long time of research and learning, when you can spend money and get a reliable working radio.




share|improve this answer 



        answered 8 hours ago





Scott Earle♦Scott Earle

2,3421921





$\endgroup$







add a comment | 


 







                                Your Answer
                            








Sumithran is a new contributor. Be nice, and check out our Code of Conduct.
                










Thanks for contributing an answer to Amateur Radio Stack Exchange!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.Use MathJax to format equations. MathJax reference.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.





draft saved
draft discarded











Sign up or log in


 Sign up using Google
                        

 Sign up using Facebook
                        

 Sign up using Email and Password
                        





Post as a guest


Name









Email
Required, but never shown















Post Your Answer                                    

                                        Discard
                                    

                                            By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy




Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged diy jargon  or ask your own question.                        


