https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55311650/how-can-i-re-position-a-drawing-on-my-canvas-when-changing-from-portrait-to-land


How can I re-position a drawing on my canvas when changing from portrait to landscape mode


            Ask Question
        








0









I am making a mobile app using Cordova and it has a dialog in which there is a canvas that can be drawn on using touch. When I tried switching from portrait to landscape the image drawn did not position correctly and disappeared from the view. I want to know how I can reposition it correctly when it changes orientation. Is there any standard mathematical code that can be applied to translate the drawing whenever the orientation is changed?



javascript html canvas





share|improve this question




        asked 27 mins ago





Ikim SSIkim SS

122

















Please add your code.
                
                    – Jack Bashford
19 mins ago






add a comment | 


 







0




            active

            oldest

            votes





                                Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.                            





Your Answer
















Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.





draft saved
draft discarded











Sign up or log in


 Sign up using Google
                        

 Sign up using Facebook
                        

 Sign up using Email and Password
                        





Post as a guest


Name









Email
Required, but never shown















Post Your Answer                                    

                                        Discard
                                    

                                            By clicking "Post Your Answer", you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy




                            Browse other questions tagged javascript html canvas  or ask your own question.                        


