https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55311219/what-method-does-webpack-use-to-show-the-sources-in-a-webpack-folder-in-dev


What method does webpack use to show the sources in a 'webpack://' folder in dev tools?


            Ask Question
        








2



2





If I use webpack in dev mode, when I open chrome dev tools, in the 'sources' tab, I can see a 'webpack://' folder with all my source code.

I would like to know how I could do something similar with my own code (without webpack).
Let's say that I want to program my own build system. This build system takes some source code then transpiles it. How can I show the original source code (including js, html, and css files) in a special folder (for example 'mysource://')?



javascript webpack build source-maps





share|improve this question




        asked 1 hour ago





OliOli

13.1k64058













add a comment | 


 







0




            active

            oldest

            votes





                                Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.                            





Your Answer
















Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.





draft saved
draft discarded











Sign up or log in


 Sign up using Google
                        

 Sign up using Facebook
                        

 Sign up using Email and Password
                        





Post as a guest


Name









Email
Required, but never shown















Post Your Answer                                    

                                        Discard
                                    

                                            By clicking "Post Your Answer", you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy




                            Browse other questions tagged javascript webpack build source-maps  or ask your own question.                        


